SOURCE_URL: https://vnit.ac.in/arch/
TITLE: VNIT Nagpur Departrnent of Architecture And Planning Engineering
FETCHED: 2026-09-21
---
Specialization
Urban Planning
PO's / PEO's
PEO's
PO's
Dept.
Newsletter
Student Chapter
Runner in Residential cooling Retrofit, Solar decathlon
CoA Approval
About Department
The Department of Architecture and Planning at VNIT is among the premier Institutes imparting knowledge in Architecture and Urban Planning domain and recognised as an Institute of National Importance by the Govt. of India. Established in the year 1947, this Department has a long legacy of creating impressive professionals, leaders and astounding designers. Today, equipped with some of the finest facilities for carrying out design experimentations, laboratories with most updated equipments & software and having active academic & research collaborations at National and International levels, the Department remains to be one among the best places to study Architecture and Urban Planning in the country. With highly qualified faculty members having rich professional as well as research experience and a curriculum at par with the Global demands make the Department a ‘must to look upon’ destination for budding architects and urban planners. It also has one of the richest alumni base, which has been actively contributing in various ways and offering students opportunities to develop their professional competence.
Currently, the Department offers Undergraduate course in Architecture, Post-graduate course in Urban Planning and PhD in the allied domains. The major thrust areas of research in the Department revolve around the sustainable and resilient developments, urban form & densities, urban transport, thermal comfort & urban heat island, architectural acoustics, housing and post occupancy evaluation, environmental & landscape studies, etc. The Department also engages actively with the Local Governments on various projects of National significance and extends its consultancy and advisory services to the Urban Authorities on subjects of urban environmental management. It also has an active consultancy cell serving the central part of India. Some of the prestigious clients include National Environmental Engineering & Research Institute (NEERI), Mahatma Gandhi International Hindi University, Wardha, NIT-Silchar, Assam, Nagpur University, Amravati University, PKV-Akola, NIIT-Jaipur, Zilla Parishad, Wardha.
The Department also is taking a stride in its Training & Placement with more than 50 design firms and development companies recognizing the students’ talent and offering internships and employment. With a start-up culture being nurtured through various initiatives at the Institute level, many of our students also go on to become successful entrepreneurs and practitioners. The education and the Institute’s support during student life makes our student World ready and they stand meritorious in various competitive exams including UPSC.
We take this opportunity to call upon the aspiring young minds to dive into the world of Architecture & Planning with us and invite the prestigious organisations to join us in creating a future ready pool of built environment professionals.
Mission
The mission is to facilitate the Architecture and Urban Planning education by the integration of one’s creative and technical competencies. It aims at creating a sensitive and empathetic human resource, capable to address balanced social, cultural, economic and environmental concerns through built environment.
Vision
The vision is to nurture and groom future architects and urban planners by inculcating a sense of commitment, professionalism and consciousness to meet the emerging challenges in the fields of Architecture and Urban Planning professions and to fulfil the aspirations of the society.
Department Stats
PG Specialisations
0
Faculty (RF+AAP+VF=31)
15+06+
Students
0
Publications (This Year)
0
Patents (This Year)
0
News & Upcoming Events
