SOURCE_URL: https://vnit.ac.in/basic_science/chemistry
TITLE: Department of Chemistry, VNIT
FETCHED: 2026-09-21
---
Specialization
M.Sc. in Chemistry [Two Year PG Program]
Ph.D. in Chemistry
About M.Sc. program
Give good foundation of basics and research component through practical skills, which in turn will provide excellent career prospects in Academics, Industries and other field of interest.
Departmental Newsletter
Student Chapter
Previous slide
Next slide
About Department
Department of Chemistry is one of the oldest departments in the Institute, and is in existence since it’s inception. This Department has been serving to cater to the needs of UG and PG level students of sciences and engineering discipline of various branches, in the field of chemistry, since long. Initially involved in the teaching of UG engineering, the department started the two years M.Sc. Programme in Chemistry in 2012. The Department has highly qualified faculty members who are actively engaged in R&D work in different areas of science and technology. Faculty members of the Department have been awarded various research fellowships and grants. Organizing and participation in national and international conferences, and publishing research work in various reputed journals are the regular activities of the Department. The faculties from the department have also authored many books, which are used regularly in course curricula at VNIT and other institutes. The department has been successful in obtaining Many R&D projects funded by different funding agencies which includes DST, SERB, MHRD, UGC, BRNS, CSIR and others. Some of the R&D projects have been completed by the department and some are currently under progress. More than fifty Ph.D. degrees have been awarded from the department while around twenty students are currently pursuing their research work for Ph.D. Degree. The department has also been involved in Continuing Education programmes such as STTP courses, Seminars and conferences. Department has well equipped laboratories with modern instrumental facilities. Since 2017 the Department has had an unique distinction to be a
DST-FIST Sponsored Department !!!
Vision & Mission
Promote fundamentals of chemistry through UG and PG courses.
Offer high end-research projects on concept-theory-practical topics.
To establish excellent teachers, entrepreneurs and innovative
independent researchers.
Become a nationally recognised centre of chemical sciences.
To establish state of art centralised research facility.
Department Stats
0
PG Specialisation
0
Faculty
0
Ph.D. Students (Ongoing)
0
SCI/SCIE Publications (2023-24)
0
Research Projects
0
Patents (2023-24)
News & Events
