SOURCE_URL: https://vnit.ac.in/basic_science/hum
TITLE: VNIT NAGPUR HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCES DEPARTMENT
FETCHED: 2026-09-21
---
Departmental Newsletter
Student Chapter
Previous slide
Next slide
About Department
।। तेजस्विनावधीतमस्तु ।।
“May we both (the teacher and the student) be endowed with brilliance.”
Humanities and Social Sciences is a distinguished academic Department of Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology, Nagpur. The Department is a hub of diverse academic offerings, including courses in English, Sanskrit, German, Pali, Psychology, Sociology, and Economics for both undergraduate and postgraduate students of the Institute. The courses aim at providing the students with holistic education equipping them with well-rounded set of abilities like critical thinking, problem-solving, communication skills, along with giving them scope for having a unique perspective on economic growth and development, GDP, finance management, HRM techniques, work stress and professional ethics.
The Department helps students in having a deeper understanding and working of human society, culture, mind and behavior. It provides insights about the social structures and its dynamics and the working of economy and financial systems thereby enriching the students with interdisciplinary perspectives, creativity and innovation which can inspire pioneering solutions in their disciplines and discourses.
The Department of Humanities and Social Sciences always looks forward to organizing social awareness programmes like lectures and seminars, workshops and conferences, research studies on various social issues which helps in better understanding of the problems and developing evidence based solutions. The Department also engages in various community outreach programs to raise awareness on social issues and work together with the local organizations and NGOs. It also organizes various Awareness Campaigns on different occasions to instill knowledge and sense of commitment among the students of the Institute.
Vision & Mission
Vision
“To pioneer at disseminating knowledge with the integration of Humanities and Social Sciences with technical education and empower the graduates to become innovative leaders who drive positive social change for a better tomorrow.”
Mission
1. To educate engineers and architects with multiple Humanities and Social Science
disciplines that encourage the exploration of human experiences and social dynamics.
2. To enrich the graduates with literary and multi-lingual skills through interdisciplinary teaching and research by imparting Indian and Foreign Languages and preparing them to become thoughtful and creative global leaders.
3. To integrate Humanities and Social Sciences into Engineering curricula to foster critical thinking, ethical reasoning, and a deep understanding of economic and societal impacts.
Department Stats
0
Ph D Subjects
0
Faculty
0
Students
0
Publications (This Year)
News & Events
