SOURCE_URL: https://vnit.ac.in/basic_science/maths
TITLE: VNIT Nagpur Mathematics Department
FETCHED: 2026-09-21
---
Programme's
B. Tech. in Mathematics & Computing
M.Sc. in Mathematics
PhD. in Mathematics
Minor  in Mathematics
PO's / PEO's
PEO's
PEO's
Departmental Newsletter
Invited talk/
guest lecture
About Department
Faculty and Staff of the Department of Mathematics
Orientation program for M. Sc. Mathematics
Orientation Programm for First Batch of B. Tech. Mathematics and Computing
Workshop on Partial Differential Equations: Theory and Numerics
National Mathematics Day 2025
Lecture Series by Prof. Laurence Grammont, Jean monnet university, Institute Camille Jordan, France
INSA-VNIT Distinguished lecture series by Prof. Dipendra Prashad, Deprartment of Mathematics, IIT Bombay
"Initiation into Mathematics"-2025 camp organized by the Department of Mathematics from 06-11 Jan 2025.
Guest lecture on “Intelligent Agent Optimization of Intracity Bus Networks”  was delivered by Dr. Jeremy Blum, Penn State University, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, USA.
Previous slide
Next slide
The Department of Mathematics offers various courses in Mathematics and Statistics to undergraduate and Post-graduate students of different Engineering Departments. The Department also offers Master and Doctoral programs in Mathematics. Faculty members in the Department are highly qualified and having research collaboration with different National and International Institutions. The Department has a good computing facility.
The Major Areas of Research of the Faculty members :
General Relativity and Cosmology
Numerical Analysis
Operator Theory and Functional Analysis
Fluid Mechanics
Nonlinear Analysis and Fixed Point Theory
Ordinary and Partial Differential Equations
Commutative Algebra
Approximation Theory and Sampling Reconstruction
Queuing Theory and Stochastic Modelling
Operation Research and Optimization under Uncertainty
Fractal Approximation
Lie Groups & Lie Algebra
Topology, Dynamical Systems and Ergodic Theory
Nonlinear Elliptic PDEs
Wave propagation, Theoretical Seismology, Solid Mechanics
Vision & Mission
Vision
Imparting of quality mathematics education and the inculcating of the spirit of research through innovative teaching and research methodologies.
To achieve high standards of excellence in generating and propagating knowledge in Mathematics. Department is committed to providing an education that combines rigorous academics with joy of discovery.
To provide an environment where students can learn, become competent users of mathematics, and understand the use of mathematics in other disciplines.
Mission
To be a leading Mathematics Department in the country.
To emerge as a global center of learning, academic excellence, and innovative research.
Department Stats
0
PG Specialisations
0
UG Specialisations
0
Faculty
0
Students
0
Publications (2025-26)
0
Patents
News & Events
Department of Mathematics commenced B.Tech. in Mathematics and Computing from July 2026 session
