SOURCE_URL: https://vnit.ac.in/centre-for-innovation
TITLE: Centre for Innovation
FETCHED: 2026-09-21
---
Home
E-Bulletin
CSR-Brochure
Governing Board
Programmes
Gallery
Home
Across the country institutes have been promoting research in cutting edge technologies which have potential to generate large amount of wealth. However there is always been a gap between the research and commercialization of the research output. Center for Innovation is one such business incubation centre initiated by VNIT, which is one of the 30 NIT’s in India. CIVN is established to address this gap by providing platform for the entrepreneurs to setup high wealth generating industries in Maharashtra using such cutting edge research.
Centre for Innovation (CIVN) at VNIT Nagpur is a section 25 / ( now section 8 non-profit) company set up to promote innovation and entrepreneurship by converting and translating technology ideas and innovation in various disciplines of science and engineering into products, processes and services for commercial viability and the benefit of society.
CIVN is a platform which offers support to aspiring entrepreneurs in developing their ideas into B Plan and further facilitate in networking for commercial viability thus creating successful entrepreneurs.
CIVN hosted at VNIT Nagpur, came into existence in 2012. Under the assistance of (RGSTC) Rajiv Gandhi Science and Technology Commission Government of Maharashtra. CIVN servers as an umbrella for promotion of Entrepreneurship.
CIVN, administers a business incubator which provides support for technology based entrepreneurship for people of this region. Thus, it extends the role of VNIT Nagpur by facilitating the conversion of research activity into entrepreneurial ventures.
Spread across approx 4500 sq ft area, the incubation centre offers spacious office infrastructure and other facilities to its incubate units at a very nominal cost. The companies have access to data resources, experts and availability of M. Tech students to support research based activities. Regular training programs are conducted to enhance the knowledge and exposure necessary for promoters to visualise and perform. Companies benefit from the ecosystem at CIVN and in VNIT Nagpur.
CIVN aims to produce responsible business enterprises and entrepreneurial leadership that will not only make a valuable contribution to the local economy, but also increase awareness in the region about a highly productive carrier option available.
The CIVN team headed by the CEO, supported by the Program Managers strive to promote the Spirit of Entrepreneurship through activities that facilitate knowledge creation, innovation and Idea generation activities.
Competent and highly experienced Board of Directors facilitate networking with industry professional , skill resources which include mentors, experts, consultants and advisors for the incubate companies.Faculties and experts from various domain form / constitute the advisory panel for scrutiny of proposal applications received at CIVN. They help identifying B-Plans which can reach commercial feasibility and sustainability.
Student connect events like “Idea Generation week “ are organised to Identify technologies/innovations which have potential for commercial ventures.CIVN has been cautious to support ideas based innovation and market requirements.
As of date CIVN hosts 5 incubation units from sectors like E = commerce, Sustainable Data management, MEMS and trendy & biodegradable Nail wear.5-6 proposals for pre incubation are in consideration , which will add new culture for digital innovation at the Incubation Centre.
With the Start up India , initiative launched by Govt of India on 16th January 2016 with financial grants from Department of Science & Technology (DST), CIVN looks forward to strengthen its ecosystem to foster and support innovation and knowledge based entrepreneurship with easy access to the budding entrepreneurs in the community.
CIVN Address :
Regd. Office, CENTRE FOR INNOVATION (CIVN) 3rd floor,
New Library Building, VNIT, South Ambazari Road,  Nagpur – 440010
Email: ceo@civn.vnit.ac.in
Telephone no: 07122801299
Fax no: 07122222263
E-Bulletin
Start Up Graduated from CIVN
CapAnalec Services Pvt. Ltd.
RivaLabs Pvt. Ltd
Nuossa medical equipment pvt Ltd
NFLM Nail art stickers
Oko icare solutions pvt ltd.
Sensify Technology
Sustainable Research &amp; Development Pvt. Ltd
Start Up Currently in CIVN
Social impact innovation pvt Ltd
Precisurge pvt Ltd
Sarvkash
Relira blastech
CSR-Brochure
Governing Board
Governing Board
We get our management support from the Governing Board. The CIVN governing board is represented by the VNIT faculty members, IIT Bombay, IIM-Ahmadabad and reputed industrialists, who bring in technological and industrial expertise in directing our activities.
CIVN Governing Board comprises of the following members:
Prof (Dr.) Premlal Patel Director VNIT, Nagpur
Dr. R. M. Patrikar Director, CIVN
Dr. R. B. Deshmukh Director, CIVN
Dr.Yashwant Katpatal Dean, Research & Consultancy VNIT, Nagpur
Dr. Ravindra B. Keskar Associate Dean (IPR and Innovation) VNIT, Nagpur
Dr. Anupam Kher Assistant Professor, Mining Engineering Department, VNIT, Nagpur
Dr. Abhay Karandikar IIT-Bombay
Dr. P. M. Dolas, Advisor, RGSTC, Govt of Maharashtra
DR. S.S. GOKHALE , DIRECTOR LNMIIT, JAIPUR
Dr. P. D. Majumdar Former Advisor ISRO & DST , GOI, Former Advisor RGS&T COMMISSION , GOM.
DR .P. W .KHOKLE , IIM AHMADABAD
MR. RABI KIRAN CO- FOUNDER , VENTURE NURSERY
Programmes
Activity
Meet up with Hon’ble CMs office interns
Visits to MEDC (Maharashtra Entrepreneurship Development Centre)
Meet up with Executive Director, Ministry of Railway, Mr. Nitin Chowdhary
Meeting of Hon’ble Minister of Commerce and Industries
Gallery
CIVN Activities – Photo Album
Mr.Dhnyaneshwar Kamble’s session on INDIAN -IPR MAY
Sanjay Arora lecture for marketing
Visit of german delegates in board room
cialisfrance24.com
YCC college students visit
Padm Vibhushan Dr. Anil Kakodkar visits CIVN  March
Start Up pitch with Mr. Mike from   Indo Canadian Alacrity Funds  –,Canada
Mahindra & Mahindra  HR team visit January
Nagpur Engg Institute’s Directors’ Board meeting by NEN -Wadwani foundation
Dr. Manish Gupta ( Ex R & D HEAD Xerox Corporation  and Founder VIDEOKEN
Kakodakar sir visit
Ideas to Impact – Founder
Geerendra  Kasmalkar in  discussion with CIVN Start ups
R&d  Railways senior  officer visit
