SOURCE_URL: https://vnit.ac.in/engineering/civil/
TITLE: Civil Engineering Department, VNIT Nagpur
FETCHED: 2026-09-21
---
Skip to content
Home
Academics
Research & Labs
People
Faculty
Staff
Former HOD’s
Students
Ph.D
M.Tech
B.Tech
Alumni
Services
Testing Services
Consultancy Services
Contact Us
X
PG Specializations & Labs
Construction Technology & Management
Environmental Engineering
Geotechnical Engineering
Transportation Engineering
Water Resources Engineering
Quick Links
PO(s) & PEO(s)
Department Newsletter
Academic Coursebooks
Department Faculty
Student Chapters
IWWA Student Chapter
ICI Student Chapter
IGS Student Chapter
Student
Admissions
The Civil Engineering Department Offers:
B.Tech in Civil Engineering
M.Tech in Construction Tech. & Mgmt.
M.Tech in Environmental Engineering
M.Tech in Geotechnical Engineering
M.Tech in Transportation
Engineering
M.Tech in Water Resource
Engineering
MBA in Advance Construction Management
PhD in all Civil Engineering related disciplines
For Admission Details:
Click Here
Previous slide
Next slide
Civil Engineering Department, VNIT Nagpur
The institute was established in June 1960 and later named in honour of the eminent engineer, planner and statesman, Sir M. Visvesvaraya. The Department of Civil Engineering is one of the finest and oldest engineering departments of the Institute and stands with an immortal reputation. The department was formed along with the Institute itself and therefore is as old. The Department has highly educated and well-experienced faculty members who endeavour to produce the finest engineers, contributing incredibly to the nation. The alumni of the department are widespread in India and abroad, occupying high positions in their respective fields. It has an intake of 120 students per year under UG Course and 100 per year under PG Courses. It also has over 80 full time and part time PhD students. The department aims to contribute effectively to the National Endeavour of producing a quality human resource of world-class standard in civil engineering by developing a sustainable technical education system to meet the changing technological needs of the Country incorporating relevance of social concerns and to build an environment to create and propagate innovative technologies for the economic development of the nation.
Department Vision
To contribute effectively to the national endeavour of producing a quality human resource of world-class standard in civil engineering by developing a sustainable technical education system to meet the changing technological needs of the country incorporating relevant social concerns and building an environment to create and propagate innovative technologies for the economic development of Nation.
Department Mission
The Mission of the civil engineering department is to develop students into capable engineering graduates and post graduates by imparting appropriate high-quality education in civil engineering so that they could be readily adapted by the service sector to meet the challenges faced by the Nation. The program strives for excellence in engineering education and profession. It also aims to promote all-around development of the personality of students by suitably involving them in co-curricular and extra-curricular activities.
Department
Stats
PG Specializations
0
Faculty
0
Students
0
Publications
(This Year)
0
Patents
(This Year)
0
News &
Events
MBA in Advance Construction Management 2026
:
Last Date:
13.02.2026
Link:
https://vnit.ac.in/mba-acm/
Ph.D. Admission January 2026
:
Last Date:
27.10.2025
Link:
https://vnit.ac.in/section/academics/admission/#ph-d-admission-january-2026
Civil Department Digital Profile
:
Details of faculty and laboratories
Link:
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-qloWECl3szD_ZYW5dhyoiRGBbvA9698/view?usp=sharing
© All rights reserved.
Developed by the Department of Civil Engineering, VNIT Nagpur
