SOURCE_URL: https://vnit.ac.in/engineering/cse/
TITLE: VNIT Nagpur Computer Science Department |
FETCHED: 2026-09-21
---
Specialization
B. Tech.
1. Computer  Science and Engineering
2. Artificial Intelligence & Data Science
M. Tech.
Ph. D.
PO's / PEO's
PEO's
PO's
PSO's
Department Stats
PG Specialisations
0
Faculty
0
Students
0
Publications (This Year)
0
Patents
0
Admission
Click here for admission related updates
About Department
The Department of Computer Science and Engineering, established in 1987, offers B.Tech., M. Tech. and Ph.D. degrees. The department has well qualified and motivated faculty members and support staff. The laboratories are adequately equipped with state-of-the-art facilities.  The department is actively involved in R&D as well as consultancy projects and has collaborations with several industries, academic institutes and R&D organizations in the country. The first B. Tech batch graduated in 1991 and the first M.Tech. batch graduated in 2009. There are more than 20 full-time research scholars registered in the department.
Research Facilities
The department has good laboratory facilities with adequate number of desktops. Different types of servers like those by IBM, Apple, HP, Dell, etc. are installed in the laboratories. The laboratories are open round the clock and are operated and managed by the students themselves. The students also get access to laser and ink-jet printers. For research work, the department regularly procures specialized hardware and software packages as required for the specific research project. The institute has a very good networking facility.
Students
The students of the department perform well regularly in the national level competitive examination Graduates Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) and many of the students are high rank holders. About 20% of the students get admissions in prestigious institutes in India and abroad for higher studies and perform well there. Many students find placements in reputed companies in India and abroad and lead a successful career.
Mission & Vision
Mission of the CSE Department
To produce highly qualified and motivated graduates through a rigorous curriculum of theory and application that develops the ability to solve problems, individually and in teams.
Creating knowledge of fundamental principles and innovative technologies through research within the core areas of computer science and also in inter-disciplinary topics.
Serving the communities to which we belong at local and national levels, combined with a deep awareness of our ethical responsibilities to our profession and to society.
Vision of the CSE Department
To contribute effectively to the important national endeavour to produce quality human resource in the information technology and related areas for sustainable development of the country’s IT industry needs.
To advance the state of the art in computer science and engineering by working on cutting edge research topics, publishing quality research papers and filing enduring patents.
To serve the local and the national community by creating awareness about IT related products and to impress upon them the importance of knowledge management.
News & Events
AICTE QIP
FDP-AIMI-2025-1
FDP-day1
FDP-day2
FDP-day3
FDP-day4
FDP-day5
FDP-day6
National Voter's Day Pledge
Teacher's Day Program by Students
Teacher's Day Program by Students
World Environment Day Tree Plantation
Serb sponsored high-end workshop
Chairman Shri Madabhushi Madan Gopal Interact with faculty
Meri Maati Mera Desh
Student Chapter
2026 Graduates
IG Fairplay Winners 2026
2025 Graduates
2024 Graduates
Departmental Newsletter
