SOURCE_URL: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1VYqcetf9bl47iWAIviZ90EAXFI7XN4Kx/view
TITLE: VNIT Signs MOU with IC-IMPACTS
FETCHED: 2025-03-10
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/iaa-news
---
Document: VNIT Signs MOU with IC-IMPACTS (dated 2025-03-10)
VNIT Signs MOU with IC-IMPACTS
Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with IC- IMPACTS, India on 08 th March 2025. IC-IMPACTS is the India-Canada Centre for Innovative Multidisciplinary Partnerships to Accelerate Community Transformation and Sustainability (IC-IMPACTS), established through the Canadian Networks of Centres of Excellence (NCE), with its head Quarter at Vancouver, Canada. IC-IMPACTS is dedicated to the development of scientificc and Research collaborations among Indian Institutes as well as Universities all over the world. This strategic partnership aims to foster collaborative research and innovation initiatives between VNIT and ICIMPACTS to address development and implementation of community-based solutions to the most urgent needs of the societies of both the nations in the areas of environment, integrated water management, safe and sustainable infrastructure, public health, and food security. The MoU significes a commitment of both the organizations, to advancing knowledge, technology, and societal impact through joint efforts for research projects, knowledge exchange, training programs, conferences and faculty as well as research activities. Dr. P L Patel, Director VNIT, while expressing the enthusiasm about the partnership, said that VNIT is excited to collaborate with IC-IMPACTS and ensured the gathering that the activities in the relevant areas will be carried out with full enthusiasm and energy. Dr. Nem Kumar Banthia, CEO & Scientificc Director IC-IMPACTs and also a 1982 batch Civil Engg. VNIT alumnus, briefly presented, the scope of IC-IMPACTS all over India and also in other countries. He also said that the MoU opens up new opportunities for faculties, researchers, and students to engage in cutting-edge research and innovation projects that have the potential to make a significcant impact. This also may open the doors for international funding for joint innovative research projects, organization of conferences and exchanges. Both institutions will work closely under the MoU, and the collaboration is expected to have outcomes for knowledge exchange, technology transfer, capacity building, etc. This partnership will not only strengthen the research capabilities of the institution and extend the horizon of ICIMPACT activities beyond IITs, but also contribute to the holistic goals set by nations for overall improvements of human life by United Nations. The signing of the MoU between VNIT and IC IMPACTS marks the beginning of a collaborative journey towards sharing and leveraging the expertise, resources, and networks to drive innovation, knowledge creation, and sustainable development. Professor Yashwant Katpatal, Dean Research and Consultancy, introduced the importance of this activity and anchored the ceremony. Dean International Activities, Prof. Kishor Bhurchandi expressed the hope that this MOU will open the opportunities of collaboration for all the disciplines of engineering and science in VNIT. During the event on behalf of IC-IMPACTS, Dr. Pratap Kumar Pati, Theme Lead for Food Security, Professor of Biotechnology, Guru Nanak Dev University & Ms Prabha Daga, IC-IMPACTS, India Coordinator, Hyderabad and other invitees were present. On behalf of Prof. G P Singh, Dean Faculty Welfare; Prof. V S Kalamkar, Dean Academics; Prof. R S Sonparote, Dean Planning and Development; Prof. Ratnesh Kumar, Dean Student Welfare; Mr Sachin Jagdale, Registrar; and coordinator of the MOU Prof. R V Ralegaonkar, Professor Civil Engineering, VNIT summed up the proceedings. Associate Deans Dr Manmohan Goyal and Dr Ravi Dhumpala were also present on the occasion.
