SOURCE_URL: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1p43rYEc4pVkVVgw8MNeQ5FsCl-O0ThWc/view
TITLE: Hostel Room Allocation Schedule (For UG Students)
FETCHED: 2026-05-06
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/section/hostel/notices
---
Document: Hostel Room Allocation Schedule (For UG Students) (dated 2026-05-06)
, Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology, Nagpur
No:HS/2025-26/3799
Hostel Section HostelSection
Date: 05May 2026
Notice: Hostel Room Allocation Schedule (For UG Students).
The schedule for online Hostel Room Allocation is given in the below table. Students are requested to follow the dates and timings carefully for a smooth allocation process.
The step-by-step procedure for hostel allocation is given in the Annexure attached. All students are advised to read and follow the instructions carefully to avoid any inconvenience.
The step-by-step procedure for hostel allocation is given in the Annexure attached. | Notice: Hostel Room Allocation Schedule (For UG Students).: 2nd Year Boys (Current staying in Aryabhatta and Homi J Bhaba) — Date: 07-May-26; Time: 06:30 pm onwards; Remarks: Single Seater in S Ramanujan Hostel for floor no 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th.
The step-by-step procedure for hostel allocation is given in the Annexure attached. | Notice: Hostel Room Allocation Schedule (For UG Students).: 1st Year Boys (Current staying in CV Raman and JC Bose) — Date: 08-May-26; Time: 06:00 am onwards; Remarks: Double Seater in S Ramanujan Hostel for floor no 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th ,7th.
The step-by-step procedure for hostel allocation is given in the Annexure attached. | Notice: Hostel Room Allocation Schedule (For UG Students).: 1st Year Girls (Current staying in Kalpana Chawla) — Date: 08-May-26; Time: 12:00 pm onwards; Remarks: Double Seater in Dr. Anandi Gopal Joshi Hostel for floor no 8th and 9th.
Assistant Registrar (Hostel)
To,
Wardens of Aryabhatta, Homi J Bhaba, CV Raman, IC Rose, Kalpana Chawla.
Supervisors of Aryablatta, Homi J Bhaba, CV Raman, JC Bose, Kalpana Chawla.
Hostels Notice Board of Aryabhatta, Homi J Bhaba, CV Raman, JC Bose. Kalpana Chawla.
Web Upload.
Copy To:
The Director, Dean (SW) for information.
Login Procedure
Students login usinginstitute credentials.
Select appropriate Academic Year (2026-27) and Session (W26).
Dashboard
Path: login →Dashboard → Hostel Management
View Some Modules
The dashboard displays student challan details, including hostel fee challans and o pending fines
Click on HostelManagement Module
Hostel Payment
Students Payment has been verified for this allocation cycle.
The Fee verification status can be seen on the right side of the Window.
Student Room Allocation
Path: Hostel Management → Transaction →Student Room Allocation
Function :
O The Student Room Allocation module is used to securely allocate hostel rooms to students by validating fee payment, anti-ragging compliance, and room availability, ensuring fair and error-tree room booking.
Verifies hostel challan status, if verification is pending, the room allocation screen is blocked with a warning message.
Mandates submission of the Anti-Ragging Affidavit via the provided link and C requires entry of the generated referenee number to procced.
Enables room booking only after all mandatory validations and fields are O completed successfully.
Allows students to select the session (W26), hostel, and block sequentially to O filter eligible rooms.
Displays room-wise details including total capacity, vacant seats, and O students alreadyallotted to the selected room.
Highlights fully occupied rooms (vacant = 0) in red and restricts selection of O such rooms.
Tick the checkbox against the desired room to select it for allocation, only rooms with available vacancies can be selected.
Shows a confirmation message upon room selection to ensure user acknowledgment before final submission.
Locks room details after successful submission, preventing any further modification by the student.
Note: Ref ID in First Field of Room Allocation is Reference ID generated at the time of submission of Anti RaggingForm online during1styear admission.
