SOURCE_URL: http://vnit.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/center_for_materials.pdf
TITLE: Material Engineering Centre
FETCHED: 2023-04-01
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/5g-lab-vnit-nagpur
---
Document: Material Engineering Centre (dated 2023-04-01)
Department of Metallurgical Materials Engineering VNIT
Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology
Information brochure
Vision
To contribute effectively to the national endeavor of producing quality human resource of world class standard by developing a sustainable technical education system to meet the changing technological needs of the country incorporating relevant social concerns and to build an environment to create and propagate innovative technologies for the economic development of the nation.
Mission
The mission of VNIT is to develop itself into an institute of world class reputation and advance knowledge and educate students in the areas of technology, science and allied disciplines.
VNIT is committed to generate and disseminate knowledge and to maintain the highest standards of excellence. The institute motivates its staff to work at the frontiers of academic enquiry and enable the students to reach their full potential in an excellent academic and research environment. The institute empowers the learning teaching community to serve the changing needs of the society and nation and contribute effectively to improve the auality of life
Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology an Institute of National Importance
The Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) is one of the twenty NITs (National Institute of Technology) declared as an Institute of National Importance under the act of parliament on August 14th 2007. The Institute established in 1960 as Regional College of Engineering, a joint venture of Govt. of India with Govt. of Maharashtra, was named after the eminent engineer, planner and statesman of the country, Bharat Ratna Sir M. Visvesvaraya.
Over the span of more than four decades, the institution has acquired the status of a reputed National Institute, which is evidenced by a large number of graduates passing out from this institute occupying top ranking key position in national as well as international organizations in the sphere of engineering and technology.
Imparting quality-engineering education at graduation and post graduation levels has been the prime function at VNIT since its inception. Sponsored research projects from DST, MHRD, AICTE, BRNS, AR & DB, NRB and National level R&D laboratories.
The Institute has signed MOU with IGCAR Kalpakkam, NEERI, JNARDDC Nagpur for R&D projects. Industries of repute have enriched the research environment of the institute which gets reflected in various Ph.D. / M. Tech (by Research) programmes and M. Tech. projects. Services offered by the institute in the form of testing and consultancy to engineering industries have been largely recognized due to faculty expertise in various disciplines of engineering. Extension services in the form of continuing education programmes, seminars, symposia and conferences at National / International level is a regular feature of the institute.
Housed on a lush green scenic campus of about 215 acres, the acaademic departments, fully equipped laboratories, administrative block, student's hostels for (Gents / Ladies), faculty and staff quarters of the institute cater to nearly 1750 students, at UG level and 250 students at post graduation / Ph.D. and M. Tech by research level (with 15 % girl students), 120 faculty and about 300 supporting staff.
The institute offers undergraduate programmes of 8 semesters (four years) duration in Civil, Mechanical, Electrical, Computer Science, -Electronics and Communication, Chemical, Metallurgical and Materials and Mining Engineering along with Architecture (five years duration).
Full time M. Tech. programmes of two years duration (4 semesters) are offered in Industrial Engg., Heat Power Engg., Environmental Engg., Integrated Power Systems, Structural Engg., Structural Dynamics and Earthquake Engg., Ferrous Process Metallurgy, Materials Engg., and Embedded Electronic Systems.
This institute is a recognized QIP center for M. Tech. and Ph, D. programmes in Civil, Electrical and Metallurgical & MaterialsEngineering.
The laboratories in various departments have excellent research and testing facilities. Under the Institutional Network Scheme of Govt. of India, the institute has acquired highly sophisticated equipments for various Departments in consultation with IITs. Under modernization programme, new equipments have been added to various laboratories in the recent years.
The institute has highly qualified and trained faculty of national and international repute and proven capabilities in various disciplines. The faculty keep themselves abreast of the latest technological developments in the country and abroad through participation in various activities like seminars, conferences, training programmes, guest lectures. The faculty have been regularly contributing papers to the research journals of high academic repute. VNIT has been selected as a lead institute in World Bank Project under Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme (TEQIP).
Aboutthe Department
The department of Metallurgical Engineering was founded in 1965 and the first batch of students passed out in 1969. The faculty and the equipment facilities in the department are well developed over the last four decades for UG/PG programme in Metallurgical and Materials Engg. Research programmes are catering to the requirement of the industrial testing and consultancy.
The department is also actively engaged in continuing education programmes on Welding, Failure analysis, Testing and QC, Casting and solidification processes, Electric steel making, Structure-property correlation etc. for industries in the region.
The faculty has established excellent rapport and effective interaction with all the major industries and R&D organizations in and around Nagpur. This has resulted in regular flow of testing/consultancy work.
Road to MEC
All UG/PG programmes have been periodically accredited by AICTE. During last accreditation, the department was awarded 'A' grade for 5 years.(2002-July)
Under Graduate Programme (08 Semesters)
Tech. by Research: This is a unique facility available to the metallurgists engaged in industries and R & D organizations to facilitate them to complete their post graduation by research. Seven candidates have completed and six candidates have registered to this date.
Recognised QIP center for Ph. D.
Full Time Research
B. Tech. in Metallurgical & Materials Engineering : 60 Seats
Post Graduate Programme (Regular)
Tech. in Materials Engineering
Tech, in Ferrous Process Metallurgy
18 Seats
18 Seats
(3 Years Duration) Fellowship of VNIT.
(Awarded - 15)
(Registered - 16)
External registration of candidates from Industries/ R&D Organisations
Placement
The career opportunities for the students are in areas of steel plants PŠU's, foundries, rolling mills, processing and fabrication industries, R&D organizations, Materials Testing and processing industries etc. The students of this department get placements through centralized Training & Placement Department. The top ranking students aspiring for higher education get admissions in reputed Universities in India and abroad.
India - REC UK Project and Materials Engineering Centre
The department was selected for British aid under India- REC-UK project on Materials Theme in Year 1994. The project (Rs.60.00 million) involved various inputs viz. :
Curriculum Development Programme with Orientation towards Materials Engineering
Procurement of Sophisticated Equipments
Training of Faculty in UK
Visits of UK Experts in the field of Materials Engineering & overarching areas
The Materials Engineering Centre was established in the year 1997, as an outcome of this project. This is an interdisciplinary research centre built primarily on acodemic excellence of the staff and high quality infrastructure of the Institute
Interactions
Since its inception the department has established regular interactions with other reputed organizations such as Indira Gandhi Centre for Atomic Research, Kalpakkam, DMRL Hyderabad, ARCI Hyderabad, NML Jamshedpur, JNARDDC, Nagpur, Sheffield Hallam University UK and other Universities in UK in addition to all major metallurgical based industries in and around Nagpur.
VNIT-IGCAR MoU
VNIT hosted 14th National Seminar on Aerospae Structures (NASAS) on "Fatigue, Fracture and Ageing Structures* on 30th and 31st January 2006. Dr. Baldevraj - Distinguished Scientist & Director IGCAR was the Guest of Honor. This event was marked by signing of MoU between IGCAR Kalpakkam and VNIT Nagpur for
Collaborative research
Sharing ofresearch Facilities
Exchange of faculty and scientists
Research leading to higher degrees like M.Tech, Ph.D.
The following collaborative projects were started under MoU between IGCAR and VNIT
"Development of radiation resistant Glasses" - (Ongoing)
"Low Cycle Fatigue of Modified 9Cr 1Mo Steels" (Under Consideration)
Investigators : Dr. V.K. Deshpande VNIT, Nagpur
Shri Kasivisvanath, IGCAR, Kalpakkam
Investigators : Dr. R.K. Paretkar, Dr. D.R. Peshwe, Mr. A.R. Ballal
Dr. R. Sandhya, Dr. K. Bhanu Sankar Rao,
IGCAR, Kalpakkam
Research & Development Programmes at the Department
The department has completed the following R&D activities in near past:
Evaluation of gas turbine/compressor blade materials and setting up of performance test parameters UISTRF project in collaboration with Sheffield Hallam University; Gas Turbine Power Station - MSEB Uran and IGCAR Kalpakkam (Tamil Nadu) (DST - UISTRF project)
Fatigue of Composite Laminates containing ply drops (AR & DB sponsored project)
Cryogenic treatment/processing of high speed tool steels
Corrosion behaviourof Cu - Ni - Mn alloys (MHRD sponsored project)
Development of Technical interface for rural industrialization in Northen & Eastern Maharashtra & Chhatisgarh region (KVIC Sponsered Project)
Development of pre-innoculated low carbon equivalent cast irons & Austempered ductile iron
Effect of weld metal chemistry and welding process parameters on microstructure and properties of weld metal with 7018 electrode (M/s Ador welding systems, Mumbai)
Thermo-mechanical treatment of IF & IFHS steels for texture development
Processing of rice husk for production of reactive SiO2. Utilization of reactive SiO₂ for the production of Aluminium-Si Nano composites (Sponsored by Rajiv Gandhi Science & Technology Commission)
Development of polymer blends for specility applications
High Temperature Mechanical Testing-Creep, LCF of Nuclear Power plant materials (Sponsored by IGCAR/BRNS)
Effect of Retrogression & Re-ageing (RRA) parameters on mechanical & Stress Corrosion properties of 7010 alloy (NRB sponsored project)
Facilities
Mechanical Characterization :
INSTRON Universal Testing Machine
INSTRON servo Hydraulic testing system
3 Universal Testing Machine: 100 MT with attachments
Hardness Testers
Model 4467, 30KN..2 Nos
computerized with high Temperature Testing facility. (400°C)
Model 8502,100 KN
Computerized with high temperature testing attachments ( upto 1000°C) and low cycle fatigue
FSA Make
Brinnel Hordness Tester (FIE)
Non Destructive Testing
Rockwell Hardness Tester (FIE)
Vicker Hardness Tester
Portable Hardness Tester
Shimatzu Microhardness Tester.
Die-Penetrant testing
Impact Testing Machine
Sona Test Ultrasonic.
50 Joules capacity, 25 Joules capacity. (INSTRON)
Erichsun cupping Machine
Erichso Model CTM II
Structural Characterization:
X-ray Diffraction Unit
Scanning Electron Microscope With EDS attachment JEOL
Metallographs
Sample Preparation Units
In- situ Metallography
Hot stage microscope
X-Ray Diffractometer
PANalytical (Philips) with attachments for Texture Analysis, Stress Measurements and Small angle Xray scattering (SAXS)
Magnification 2 Lacs X with Elemental mapping Microanalysis (EDS)
NIKON, UNION, OLYMPUS Metallographs with Image Analysis System (upto 2000 X magnification)
Ceramic / Diamond cutter and Polishing Setup.
Portable sample preparation and microscope Kit to carry out in situ metallographic investigation
Carl Zeiss, (1500°C) for high temperature microscopy with Image analyser.
Chemical & Thermal characterization :
Spectrometer
Atomic Absorption Spectrometer
Rapid C-S Analyser
Differential scanning Calorimeter(DSC)
Thermo Gravimetric Analyser/ Differential Thermal Analyser
Thermo Mechanical Analyser
Fourier transform infrared spectrometer (FTIR)
Metal scan 2000 (Arun & Co, UK) (Iron, copper & Al Base)
GBC Australia
LECO make
Mettler Itd 902, Switzerland
Perkin Elmer Make
Perkin Elmer Make
Perkin Elmer Make
Wear, Welding & Process Metallurgy :
Wear Analysis
Welding
Foundry
Mineral Dressing
Process Metallurgy
Audio Visual Aids
Pin-on-Disc, Dry / Wet abrasion Wear, Slurry erosion wear, Two body wear
TIG /MIG/Arc welding, Gas welding setup
Melting Units, Sand testing Equipments, Sand Muller.
Jaw Crusher, Roll crusher, Ball mill and road mill, Classifiers Cells, V-filters, Electromagnetic and Electrostatic separator.
Driers, Roasters, Autoclave, Reducibility apparatus (CO,H2) Furnaces, Leaching of Concentrates and Electrolytic Cells.
Computer Laboratory having Server with 30 Nodes connected and are installed with software learning packages with Internet facilities. About 200 title VCDs with popular topics from metallurgical and Material Engineering.
Polymer Processing and Testing :
Polymer Moulding and Testing Machine
Vacuum Forming Machine
Melt Flow Indexer
Heat Distortion Temperature (HDT) and Vicat Softening Point (VSP) Apparatus
Dart Impact Tester for polymer
Hydraulic Hot Moulding Press with Pressclave
Dual Column Densitometer
Single screw Extruder and Granulater
Environmental stabilization chamber
: Polylab, UK
: Formech, UK
: Dynisco Ltd,UK
: IEI, India
: IEl India Films.
: George Moore, UK
: TMI, USA.
: Boolani Engg. Corpn., Mumbai
: C.M. Equip. & Inst. (India)
Electronic & Electromagnetic Materials :
Multi - channel Galvanometer
Kelvin's Double Bridge
Resistivity Meter
LCR Meter PC.
Trainer (UK Model)
Alpha-ImpedanceAnalyzer
Directional Solidification and Single crystal apparatus
Corrosion Engineering :
Computerized Potentiostat (Sixteen Channels)
Single Channel Potentiostat
Salt Spray Apparatus, Coating Thickness Measurement Instruments
Stress Corosion Cracking set up
Backup facilities :
Vacuum Induction Melting Furnace Inductotherm 30KW, Vacuum Melting 2Kg, 103 torr, Air melting 2, 5 &10, 18 Kgs.
High Temprature Heat Treatment Furnaces (Lenton,UK)(up to 1600)
Controlled Atmosphere Muffle furnace (1200{)
Mineral Processing & Process Metallurgy Equipments
High Temprature Heat Treatment Furnaces (Lenton,UK)(up to 1600) | Backup facilities: Faculty: S.N. Name — Faculty: Area of Specialization
High Temprature Heat Treatment Furnaces (Lenton,UK)(up to 1600) | Backup facilities: Faculty: Professors:
High Temprature Heat Treatment Furnaces (Lenton,UK)(up to 1600) | Backup facilities: Faculty: 1 Dr. D.R.Peshwe Head of the Department 2 Dr S.U.Pathak Dr. R.K.Paretkar — Faculty: Physical Metallurgy, Welding, Casting process, Wear of Engineering Materials Tribology, Polymers & Composites. Extractive Metallurgy, Solidification Thermodynamics and kinetics, Failure Analysis.
High Temprature Heat Treatment Furnaces (Lenton,UK)(up to 1600) | Backup facilities: Faculty: Mechanical Metallurgy, Tribology, Ferro Alloys. Assistant Professors:
High Temprature Heat Treatment Furnaces (Lenton,UK)(up to 1600) | Backup facilities: Faculty: 1. Mr. A.D. Chopde 2. Dr. V. K. Didolkar 3. Dr. S.N. Paul 4. Mr. D.V. Moghe 5. Dr. A.P. Patil Dr. S.G. Sapate — Faculty: Physical Metallurgy, Surface Hardening, Chemical Characterization, Heat Treatment. Mineral Dressing, Powder Metallurgy, Ceramics & Refractories. Structural Metallurgy, Polymer & Composites, Materials Characterization. Iron & Steel Making, DRI Technology, Thermodynamics & Kinetics Wear & Tribilogy, Heat Transfer, Physical Metallurgy.
High Temprature Heat Treatment Furnaces (Lenton,UK)(up to 1600) | Backup facilities: Faculty: 6. 1. Mr. R.C. Rathod Mr. A. R. Ballal Mr. R, K. Khatirkar — Faculty: Corrosion Engineering, Surface Engineering, Simulation & Modelling, Alloy Steel Making.
High Temprature Heat Treatment Furnaces (Lenton,UK)(up to 1600) | Backup facilities: Faculty: Lecturers:
High Temprature Heat Treatment Furnaces (Lenton,UK)(up to 1600) | Backup facilities: Faculty: 2 3 — Faculty: Polymer, Corrosion. Corrosion, Mechanical Processing, Ceramics, Fuel Cells Characterization of Materials, Texture and XRD - Analysis.
High Temprature Heat Treatment Furnaces (Lenton,UK)(up to 1600) | Backup facilities: Faculty: 4 Mr. Y. Y. Mahajan — Faculty: Physical Metallurgy, Heat treatment & NDT.
High Temprature Heat Treatment Furnaces (Lenton,UK)(up to 1600) | Backup facilities: Well Wishers - Advisors | Well Wishers - Advisors | Well Wishers - Advisors
High Temprature Heat Treatment Furnaces (Lenton,UK)(up to 1600) | Backup facilities: S.N. 1 2 3 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 | Name Dr. Placid Rodriguez, IIT, Madras Dr. Baldev Raj, IGCAR, Kalpakkam Dr. Jyoti Mukhopadhyaya, J.N.A.R.D.D.C., Nogpur Dr. P. D. Mangalgiri, G. M. Bangalore Dr. Bhanu Sankar Rao, IGCAR, Kalpakkam Dr. B. S. Murty, IIT, Madras Dr. Amol Gokhale, D.M.R.L., Hyderabad Dr. C. M. Manjunatha, N.A.L., Bangalore Dr. Ranganathan, N.A.L., Bangalore Dr. R. K. P. Singh, Institute for Steel Development and Growth, Kolkata Dr, R. W. Khare, Banglore | S.N. 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 | Name Dr. Ajit Kulkarni, I.I.T., Bombay Dr. S. A. Paranjpe, Welmet Tech., Nagpur Mr. P. R. K. Reddy, Nelcast, Chennai Dr. R. H. Tupkary, Retd. faculty & Ex- Chairman B.OG. Dr. A. V. RamaRao, Retd. faculty Dr. R. C. Sinvhal, Retd. faculty Dr. P. M. Padole, Deptt. of Mech. Engg. Dr. R. M. Patrikar, Deptt. of Electronics Dr. V. K. Deshpande, Deptt. of Appl. Physics.
Major Events
14 National Seminar on Aerospace Structures (XIV NASAS), 31* January-2 February 2006) organized by Deptt. of Metallurgical & Materials Engg., VNIT jointly with Head Quarters-Maintence-Command, Indian Airforce, Vayusena Nagar, Nagpur and National Aerospace Laboratories, Bangalore.
Short Term Training Programme (STTP) on Failure Analysis of Engineering Materials and Welding Process and Metallurgy.
Workshop on "Characterization of Materials".
Students Technical Festival "TATVA 2007" in January 2007.
National Seminars on Ferro Alloys Technology (1978), Recovery of metals from waste (1982), Special casting Processes (1992).
Technical Teachers Cooperative Training programme in UK
National level workshop on Rural Development and utilisation of Bamboo as construction material.
Felicitation of Dr B. S. Murty (Aluminus) for getting Shanti Swaroop Bhatnagar Award (2007)
Service Offered to Industries :
Testing & Consultancy :
Chemical characterization of Engineering Materials
Mechanical characterization of Engineering Materials
Structural characterization of Engineering Materials
Wear behaviour and analysis
Characterization of Coating & Tribological behaviours
Weld metal / HAZ Assessment and study of weld parameters
Residual life assessment of industrial plants and components
Re-engineering of critical and import substitute components
Material selection and specification
Corrosion investigations
Non destructive examination of engineering components
Melting - refining, heat treatment studies
Fracture toughness investigations, fatigue analysis
Failure Investigations Failure Investigations
Project Report preparation for new entrepreneurs Project Report preparation for new entrepreneurs
Assessment of capacities and performance evaluation of various equipments in materials processing industries Assessment of capacities and performance evaluation of various equipments in materials processing industries
Renewal af sick units - Assessment and Analysis Renewal af sick units - Assessment and Analysis
Contínujng Education Programme Contínujng Education Programme
Refresher courses in Materials Selection, Characterization & Processing, welding, Failure Analysis etc. Refresher courses in Materials Selection, Characterization & Processing, welding, Failure Analysis etc.
Short Term certificate courses Short Term certificate courses
In-service Training Programmes In-service Training Programmes
Seminars / Conference / Exhibitions Seminars / Conference / Exhibitions
Distance Leaming Module for Non-metallurgists engaged in industries Distance Leaming Module for Non-metallurgists engaged in industries
Credentials
Recipient of prestigious Parke award from Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce of Industries (MCCl) Pune for Development of Carbonfreeferrochrome(1974)
Prestigious Parkhe award for developing Instrumented Test Rig for formability testing of thick plates (1971)
Promoted participation of undergraduate students in National Level Technical Paper Contest, Metallurgical / Materials Quiz and Annual Technical Meeting of the Indian Institute of Metals. The students have won prizes in almost all the competitions
Organized National level Conferences on (1) Recent Trends in production of Ferro Alloys, (2) Recovery of Minor metals from Metallurgical Waste, (3) Recent Trends in casting production, (4) Inspection, testing and quality control in Metallurgical industries and (5) Tatva, Technical festival of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering students
Recipient of prestigious S&T Best Innovation Award from KVIC (Ministry of M.S.M.E. Delhi) for development of rural technologies(2007)
Organized workshops on Librarians Training, Science Park, Entrepreneurship Development, Image Analysis, Failure Analysis of Engineering Materials, Electro ceramics, and Polymers for Future
Active collaboration with M/s. Indian Bureau of Mines, Nagpur, M/s. Jawaharlal Nehru Research Design & Development Centre, Nagpur; NML Jamshedpur, DMRL Hyderabad, ARCI Hyderabad, ADA Bangalore, IGCAR, Kalpakkam
More than 85% of final year students get suitable placement through campus interviews
Up-to-date curriculum in undergraduate programme, the only department offering Post Graduate Degree in Ferrous Process Metallurgy (FPM) and Materials Engineering (MTE)
More than 150 Industries/Govt, organizations avail the testing/consultancy services ofthe department
Technical Teachers Cooperative Training programmes in UK
National level workshop on Rural Development and Utilisation of Bamboo as construction material
WORKSHOP
CHARACTERIZATIONOFMATERIALS
ON
[Spossesee TEQiPj28 30 Seotember 2006
Deptt. of Metallurgical S Materials
VNIT.Nagpur-440011
Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology, Nagpur-440 010 (India)
Phone:+91-712-2221030
Dr. D. R. Peshwe, HOD: 2801385
Fax:+91-712-2221030
website : www.vnitnagpur.ac.in
