SOURCE_URL: http://vnit.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/water_resources_engineering_centre.pdf
TITLE: Centre for Water Resource
FETCHED: 2023-04-01
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/5g-lab-vnit-nagpur
---
Document: Centre for Water Resource (dated 2023-04-01)
VISION
'To create and provide an environment to translate knowledge and innovation into creation of successful professional and researchers, in the area of Water Resources Engineering "
Mission
Centre for Water Resources will create a community that will foster and support innovation and knowledge based Skill amongst the students of Civil Engineering leading to the creation of positive Attitude and social value through successful professional practices.
ABUT THE CENTRE
The Centre of Water Resources Engineering (WRE) was established in June 2005, to promote teaching, research and consultancy and impart training programmes in hydrology, water resources engineering, irrigation management and open channel flow and quantity management. It is basically a Center established under the Department of Civil Engineering, Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology, Nagpur.
Right from inception the Centre is academically supporting various subjects for B.E. Civil Engineering and selected subject for others branch students. From the year 2005, the Water Resources Engineering is offering an M.Tech degree in Water Resources engineering of 24 months duration. This programme in the past has produced quality students who are now placed at various industries such as L&T, Veolia water works, WAPCOS, etc. The Centre also offers B.Tech Courses in Hydrology and Hydraulic Engineering.
The Centre has been a preferred centre with many Ph.D students who are pursuing their research interests on various issues of Water Resources Engineering. Good Quality M.Tech thesis has been produced in the past years and many more are still under Progress.
WRE Centre has offered many Consultancies in the Field of open channel flow, Hydraulic Engineering, pipe flow, drainage calculations and many other aspects of the Water Resources Engineering.
During the Past Few Years the WRE Centre has established its Collaboration with many National Level laboratories and Institute across India such as SVNIT Surat, CWRDM Kerala and CWPRS Pune.
Associated Faculty Members
Dr. Aniruddha D Ghare, Associate Professor, Department of Civil Engineering.
Dr. Avinash D Vasudeo, Assistant Professor, Department of Civil Engineering.
Water Resources Engineering Centre
Some of The Facility at The Centre for Water Resources
