SOURCE_URL: https://drive.google.com/file/d/14Id5y9w8Raw8drhZFzUPbjwN7s3YoMB7/view
TITLE: Satvik Karma – RISE 360 Engineering Scholarship Program 2025
FETCHED: 2025-09-18
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/section/academics/notice/
---
Document: Satvik Karma – RISE 360 Engineering Scholarship Program 2025 (dated 2025-09-18)
RISE 360
Engineering Scholarship Program 2025
Satvik Karma Foundation is committed to create opportunities for deserving students with good academic track record and support to pursue their aspirations.
About the Scholarship
The scholarship is designed to provide holistic support to students who have secured admission in recognized and reputed engineering institutions. Apart from financial support we provide personalized mentoring, internship and career placement assistance.
The scholarship is awarded on a merit-cumneeds basis. Our holistic selection process fairly balances academic merit, income level, and special personal circumstances.
Who can Apply
Students enrolled in any 4-year undergraduate engineering program at a recognized and reputable institution
Family income up to ₹6,00,000 per annum
Students from disadvantaged backgroundssuch as first-generation college-goers, Persons with Disability, single-parent households, or orphans- are especially encouraged to apply
Scholarship Benefits
4-year scholarship duration, renewal each year based on academic performance and involvement in mentoring program.
Up to ₹50,000 annually per student towards academic fees.
Required Documents
Admission letter or proof of enrollment
JEE/CUET scorecard
Valid income certificate
Supporting document(s) for special circumstances.
How to Apply
Fill out the form using the link below with all the details mentioned above.
RISE 360 Engineering Scholarship Application Link- Updated
📞
About Satvik Karma Foundation
While our website is currently under development, here is a brief overview of the Satvik Karma Foundation. Satvik Karma Foundation has been incorporated very recently. It is the brainchild of our founder, Kuldip Kaura , a professional business leader with rich experience as CEO of large public companies in India and the UK, across Engineering (ABB), Metals and Mining (Vedanta), and Cement (Holcim-ACC). Over the years, he has been actively involved in philanthropy - initially through individual efforts, such as supporting the school education of students from low-income backgrounds. In addition he also provides merit-cum-need-based scholarships to students from BITS Pilani under the Kaura Family Fellowships, and to students from IIT BHU and the cohorts from Aakanksha foundation and Apna Sapna program. To deepen the support in the field of engineering, he evolved his efforts into a more structured initiative titled Apna Sapna Program , which focuses on JEE preparation for engineering aspirants from modest socio-economic backgrounds. The pilot batch, conceptualised and sponsored by him in Udaipur, saw the majority of students successfully secure admissions in reputed engineering colleges. The program is now in its third batch. Mr. Kaura is also a Partner at Social Venture Partners (SVP), a global network of philanthropists who invest their time, talent, and resources to support social impact organizations. He is a member of the Grants Review Committee at SVP and has been a Lead Partner with education-focused NGOs, such as TEACH and Unifly. has incorporated the foundation to structure and scale the individual efforts
Now Mr. Kaura to ensure deeper and more sustainable impact in the above areas and education space in general.
