SOURCE_URL: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Z0b1gtXxTxnxrp0kR2bvOTsO3Lgagzqn/view
TITLE: Clarification Regarding Written Test for Part time Ph.D. (Category 2B) candidates
FETCHED: 2026-06-15
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/section/academics/admission
---
Document: Clarification Regarding Written Test for Part time Ph.D. (Category 2B) candidates (dated 2026-06-15)
VISVESVARAYA NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, NAGPUR
Office of Dean Academic
Date:15.06.2026
Subject: Clarification Regarding Written Test for Part-Time Ph.D. (Category 2B) Candidates
All Part-Time Ph.D. (Category 2B) applicants are hereby informed that, as per the Institute Ph.D. Regulations approved vide Senate Resolution S80.20, there will be no written test for admission under this category.
Eligible candidates are required to appear directly for the Synopsis Presentation and Interview as per the schedule specified in the Provisional List of Candidates Eligible for Written Test (Cycle-Il, July 2026 Admissions) available on the Institute website.
Candidates are advised to regularly visit the Institute website for updates and further instructions.
Applicants are also requested to refer to the document titled "Information About Part-Time Ph.D. Category 2B"attached herewith for detailed guidelines and requirements.
INFORMATION ABOUT PART TIME Ph.D. CAT. 2B:
In accordance with Institute Senate Resolution (S80.20), a new admission category has been introduced for candidates having a minimum of five years of industry experience or academic experience in reputed academic institutes. The details of this category are as follows:
Based on the Senate Resolution to Agenda Item S80.20, the definition of"Academic Reputed Institute" and the Assessment Mechanism for such applicants are provided as under:
Definition of "AcademicReputed Institute"
The following categories of institutions shall be considered as Academic Reputed Institutes:
Centrally Funded Technical Institutions (CFTIs)
Government or Government-Funded / Government-Aided Institutes
Government-Funded Research Laboratories
Autonomous bodies being funded from Central and State Governments
Institutes having appeared in the NIRF rank within top 300 or up to 1500 in World QS rankings *, at least once during the preceding five years
Assessment Mechanism in Lieu of VNIT Ph.D. Written Test (for Part-Time Candidates having five or more Years of Industry Experience/Academic Experience in Academic Reputed Institutes).
The Assessment Mechanism in Lieu of Ph.D. Written Test shall be as follows:
Assessment Mechanism in Lieu of VNIT Ph.D. Written Test (for Part-Time Candidates having five or more Years of Industry Experience/Academic Experience in Academic Reputed Institutes). | The Assessment Mechanism in Lieu of Ph.D. Written Test shall be as follows: Pftt'axnes*'r: Synopsis Plesent*tion — Weigtlt*ge: )iJ -70
Assessment Mechanism in Lieu of VNIT Ph.D. Written Test (for Part-Time Candidates having five or more Years of Industry Experience/Academic Experience in Academic Reputed Institutes). | The Assessment Mechanism in Lieu of Ph.D. Written Test shall be as follows: Pftt'axnes*'r: lnten,.is\.\,' — Weigtlt*ge: ,,Jl 0,1 -t(, , u
Assessment Mechanism in Lieu of VNIT Ph.D. Written Test (for Part-Time Candidates having five or more Years of Industry Experience/Academic Experience in Academic Reputed Institutes). | The Assessment Mechanism in Lieu of Ph.D. Written Test shall be as follows: Pftt'axnes*'r: {lATH Score — Weigtlt*ge: 1t) ok *
*Modified as per Senate Resolution
A new Ph.D. Part-Time Admission Category for candidates having five or more years of Industry Experience/Academic Experience in Academic Reputed Institutes shall be included in the Ph.D. Application Form and Admission Brochure. Applicants under this category shall be required to submit a single-page synopsis write-up indicating the focused area of research along with the application form.
