SOURCE_URL: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1eoJ3qNBHAuf3u2KIrjrRYqlsTlzWqR4S/view
TITLE: The BRICS Network Universities’ s International Workshop (Hybrid Mode) On Sustainable Infrastructure Solutions for Climate Change Resilience
FETCHED: 2025-01-13
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/ia-events
---
Document: The BRICS Network Universities’ s International Workshop (Hybrid Mode) On Sustainable Infrastructure Solutions for Climate Change Resilience (dated 2025-01-13)
Organizing Committee
Patron:
Dr. Prem Lal Patel
Director & Professor, VNIT Nagpur
Co-Patron:
Dr. K.M. Bhurchandi
Dean ( International Affairs & Alumni), VNIT Nagpur
Dr. Y.B. Katpatal
Dean ( Research and Consultancy) , VNIT Nagpur
Organizers:
Dr. D.H. Lataye
Head & Professor, Civil Engineering, VNIT Nagpur
Dr. Ajay R Tembhurkar Professor, Civil Engineering, VNIT Nagpur
Dr. Swapnil P Wanjari
Asst. Professor, Civil Engineering, VNIT Nagpur
Dr. Srinivasan V.
Asst. Professor, Civil Engineering, VNIT Nagpur Dr. Udit Jain
Asst. Professor, Civil Engineering, VNIT Nagpur
Dr. Karthik Balasundaram
Asst. Professor, Civil Engineering, VNIT Nagpur
Dr. Abhijit D Lade
Asst. Professor, Civil Engineering, VNIT Nagpur Dr. Suresh K Thappeta
Asst. Professor, Civil Engineering, VNIT Nagpur
Convenor
Dr. Ajay R Tembhurkar Professor, Civil Engineering, VNIT Nagpur
Co-ordinator(s)
Dr(s). Suresh K Thappeta and Abhijit D. Lade
Assistant Professor, Civil Engineering Department, VNIT Nagpur Maharashtra - 440010,INDIA
Ph: (+91)712 - 2802317, 2802318
Mobile: +91-8056107145; 9172250750
Email:
sureshthappeta@civ.vnit.ac.in abhijitlade@civ.vnit.ac.in
About the BRICS National Universities (NU)
The BRICS Network University (BRICS NU) is a network of the BRICS member countries higher education institutions. The BRICS NU is created for providing opportunity of high quality lifelong learning through different forms of educations; Facilitating sustainable development of the BRICS countries through creation and dissemination of knowledge and skills via joint research activities in natural and social science, humanities, engineering and other areas in the spirit of pluralism and diversity. Also providing training for the professionals of high qualification for satisfying the needs of the BRICS countries
About the Organizing Institution
Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT), Nagpur is one of premier NITs in India. The Institute has a beautiful lush green campus of 214 acres and is located at Nagpur which is centre of India. The Institute has developed itself into an institute of world class reputation in imparting advance knowledge & education in the areas of technology, science and allied disciplines. The Institute awards Bachelor's, Master's and Doctoral degrees in Engineering, Technology, Science and Architecture. T he vision of institute is to contribute effectively to the national endeavor of producing quality human resource of world class standard by developing a sustainable technical education system to meet the changing technological needs of the country incorporating relevant social concerns and to build an environment to create and propagate innovative technologies for the economic development of the nation. The faculty members are well recognized as experts in their respective field and are involved in world class research & consultancy.
BRICS Network Universities' s International Workshop
(Hybrid Mode) On
Sustainable Infrastructure Solutions for Climate Change Resilience
24 th - 25 th Jan 2025
Organized by:
Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology
Department of Civil Engineering Nagpur, Maharashtra, India 440010
Sub- Themes Workshop
Sustainable solutions for hydrological extremes in climate change perception
Sustainable Mobility
Environmental Solutions for Infrastructure Sustainability
Recycle Material for Sustainable Construction
Sustainable Geotechnics
Key Features
Downscaling techniques for assessing the climate extremes
Frequency analysis and hydrological extremes in perspective of climate change
Environmental Appraisal and Remediations for Infrastructure Projects
Techniques for Reuse of Power Plant Waste in Construction Industry
Geotechnical Solutions to create resource-efficient, environmental-friendly and Socially beneficial Infrastructure
Speakers
The speaker shall comprise of faculty from IIT/NIT/ BRICS NU/ Ministry and Experts from reputed research organizations:
Dr Ing. Jan Riel, Karlsruhe University, Germany
Dr. Sarvesh Mali, Boral, Australia
Dr. G.W. Rathod, University of Witwatersrand, South Africa
Dr. Arun Kansal, TERI, India
Dr Subbarao Pichuka, IIT Madras, India
Dr Aju Matthew George, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, GOI
Who can participate?
Academicians, Faculty Members, Researchers, Students, Research Scholars, Industrial Professional and Other Stake holders can attend this workshop. For those registered participants who wish to join online, the link will be share on your email once you register for this workshop.
Important Dates
Last date for registration
: 20 th Jan 2025
Course Dates (Hybrid Mode)
:24 th - 25 th Jan 2025
Registration
No registration fee for Students, Faculty Members and Research Scholars from BRICS Network Universities.
The registration fee for the workshop for participants from other organizations from India and abroad is as follows:
The registration fee for the workshop for participants from other organizations from India and abroad is as follows | Registration: Participants: Indian Students — Registration fee: Rs 500+18%GST
The registration fee for the workshop for participants from other organizations from India and abroad is as follows | Registration: Participants: Indian Faculty, Scientist, Industry Professionals — Registration fee: Rs 1000+18%GST
The registration fee for the workshop for participants from other organizations from India and abroad is as follows | Registration: Participants: Foreign Participants — Registration fee: 50$ +18% GST
The payment of registration fees can be done online by the following link
https://pay.vnit.ac.in/home
In the Select Payment Category kindly select the option 'Conference/ Seminar/ Workshop' and submit. Then select the event Sustainable Infrastructure Solutions for Climate Change Resilience - 2025 '
Registration is compulsory for all the participant via the following link Google Form at the earliest:
https://forms.gle/QyUcRs2cFzorRNcM7
