SOURCE_URL: https://vnit.ac.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/ESTABLISHMENT_MANUAL.pdf
TITLE: Establishment Manual
FETCHED: 2022-12-01
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/5g-lab-vnit-nagpur
---
Document: Establishment Manual (dated 2022-12-01)
ESTABLISHMENT MANUAL
ESTABLISHMENT MANUAL
CHAPTER-1
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND
Background Historical
Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology, Nagpur is one of the thirty National Institutes of Technology in the country. The Govt. of India conferred on the Institute, the Deemed to be University status (under University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (3 of 1956)) with effect from 26th June 2002. Subsequently, the Central Govt. by Act of Parliament (National Institutes of Technology Act, 2007 (29 of 2007)) declared VNIT Nagpur as an Institute of National Importance along with all other NITs. The Act was brought into force from 15th August 2007.
Earlier, the Institute was known as Visvesvaraya Regional College of Engineering (VRCE). It was established in the year 1960 under the scheme sponsored by Govt. of India and Govt. of Maharashtra. The college was started in June 1960 by amalgamating the State Govt. Engineering College functioning at Nagpur since July 1956. In the meeting held in October 1962, the Governing Board of the College resolved to name it after the eminent engineer, planner, and statesman of the country Sir M.Visvesvaraya.
The prime objective of establishing Regional Engineering Colleges was to impart quality technical education throughout the country and foster national integration. The College started functioning in 1960 from camp office in the premises of Govt. Polytechnic, Sadar, Nagpur and subsequently an area of about 214 acres was acquired to house an independent Regional Engineering College at present location.
ESTABLISHMENT MANUAL
CHAPTER-ⅡI
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
ESTABLISHMENT MANUAL
CHAPTER -III
CLASSIFICATION OF POSTS
Classification of Posts
The prime objective of establishing Regional Engineering Colleges was to impart quality technical education throughout the country and foster national integration. | Classification of Posts: Classification: Group A (Teaching) — Description of Posts (Central Civil Posts carrying the following grade pays/pay levels): AGP HAG (Pay Level -15) AGP Rs. 10500/- (PayLevel-14A) AGP Rs. 10000/- (Pay Level - 14) AGP Rs. 9500/- (Pay Level-13A2) AGP Rs. 9000 (Pay Level-13A1) AGP Rs. 8000/- (Pay Level - 12) AGP Rs. 7000/-(Pay Level-11) AGP Rs. 6000/- (Pay Level -10)
The prime objective of establishing Regional Engineering Colleges was to impart quality technical education throughout the country and foster national integration. | Classification of Posts: Classification: Group A (Non-Teaching) — Description of Posts (Central Civil Posts carrying the following grade pays/pay levels): GP Rs.8900/- (Pay Level-13A) GP Rs. 8700/- (Pay Level-13) GP 7600(Pay Level-12) GP 6600 (Pay Level-11) GP 5400(Pay Level-10)
The prime objective of establishing Regional Engineering Colleges was to impart quality technical education throughout the country and foster national integration. | Classification of Posts: Classification: Group B(Non-Teaching) — Description of Posts (Central Civil Posts carrying the following grade pays/pay levels): GP Rs.5400/- (Pay Level-9) GP Rs.4800/-(Pay Level-8), GP Rs. 4600/ - (Pay Level-7) GP Rs.4200 (Pay Level-6)
The prime objective of establishing Regional Engineering Colleges was to impart quality technical education throughout the country and foster national integration. | Classification of Posts: Classification: Group C(Non-Teaching) — Description of Posts (Central Civil Posts carrying the following grade pays/pay levels): GP Rs. 2800/ - (pay level -5) GP Rs. 2400/ - (pay level -4) GP Rs. 2000/ - (pay level- 3) GP Rs. 1900/ - (pay level -2) GP Rs. 1800/ - (pay level 1)
ESTABLISHMENT MANUAL
CHAPTER IV
RULE 2019 RECRUITMENT
To The Director of all the NITs.
Subject:
Implementation of Recruitment Rules for Non-Teaching Staff of NITs based on the recommendations of Oversight Committee - regarding.
Sir \ Madam,
I am directed to refer to this Ministry's letter of even number dated 20th February, 2019 vide which the recommendations of the Oversight Committee along with the guidelines / instructions and the new Recruitment Rules (2019) for Non-TeachingStaff of the National Institute of Technology (NITs) have been communicated for implementation after adoption by the Board of Governors of all the NITs.
Subsequent to issue of new Non-Teaching RRs (2019), signed set of Annexure referred in letter of even number dated 20th February, 2019 is attached with this communication for ready reference. In addition to above, it has been decided to reiterate point (i) in para 3 of letter No.F.33-2/2012TS.IIl dated 20th December, 2017, which reads as under:-
"For the promotion of Non-Teaching employees who were recruited before the implementation of above mentioned RRs issued on 5th February, 2014 and 20th December, 2017, respectively, will continue to be governed by the same educational qualifications, which were prevalent before the respective RRs. However, such employees will have to undergo requisite skill test / trade test for future promotion(s) and upgradation.
Those who have been recruited as per the RRs issued on 5th February, 2014 and 20th December, 2017, respectively, will continue to be governed by the same."
k.ly
...contd./-
Government of India Ministry of Human Resource Development Department of Higher Education
Shastri Bhawan, NewDelhi dated, the 4thApril, 2019
4. All the Institutes are advised to adopt the new Recruitment Rules (2019) of Non-Teaching Staff as referred in attached Annexure and strictly adhere to RRs (2019) and guidelines / instructions in tandem with the communication dated20th February, 2019.
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India
Encl.: Annexure.
Copy for information to:-
The Chairperson, Board of Governors of all NITs.
PS to Hon'ble MoS (SPS).
PS to Hon'ble HRM.
Sr. PPS to Secretary (HE), MHRD.
PS to Deputy Director General (HE), MHRD.
PS to Additional Secretary (TE), MHRD.
The Registrars of all the NITs- with a request to update the information on the website of the respective NITs.
Guard File.
Kbyi
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159
INDEX
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: General Guidelines — Page No.: 1-2
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Registrar — Page No.: 3- 4
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Deputy Registrar — Page No.: 5- 6
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Assistant Registrar — Page No.: 7-8
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Librarian — Page No.: 9 - 10
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Deputy Librarian — Page No.: 11 - 12
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Assistant Librarian — Page No.: 13 - 14
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Principal SAS Officer — Page No.: 15- 17
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Senior Student Activity & Sports (SAS) Officer — Page No.: 18 - 20
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Student Activity & Sports (SAS) Officer — Page No.: 21 - 23
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Principle Scientific Officer / Principal Technical Officer — Page No.: 24 - 25
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Sr. Scientific officer / Technical Officer — Page No.: 26-27
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Scientific Officer / Technical Officer — Page No.: 28 - 29
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Superintending Engineer — Page No.: 30 - 32
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Senior Executive Engineer — Page No.: 33 - 35
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Executive Engineer — Page No.: 36 - 37
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Senior Medical Officer — Page No.: 38-39
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Medical Officer — Page No.: 40 - 41
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Technician — Page No.: 42-43
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Senior Technician — Page No.: 44 - 45
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Technician (Selection Grade - II) — Page No.: 46- 47
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Technician (Selection Grade - I) — Page No.: 48- 49
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Technical Assistant — Page No.: 50 - 51
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Senior Technical Assistant — Page No.: 52-53
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Technical Assistant (Selection Grade - II) — Page No.: 54 - 55
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Technical Assistant (Selection Grade - I) — Page No.: 56 - 57
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Jr. Engineer / SAS Assistant / Library and Information Assistant — Page No.: 58- 59
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Assistant Engineer / Senior SAS Assistant / Senior Library and Information Assistant — Page No.: 60 - 61
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Assistant Engineer (Selection Grade - II) / SAS Assistant (Selection Grade II) / Library and Information Assistant (Selection Grade II) — Page No.: 62-63
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Assistant Engineer (Selection Grade I) / SAS Assistant (Selection Grande I) / Library and Information Assistant (Selection Grade I) — Page No.: 64 - 65
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Pharmacist — Page No.: 66- 67
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Pharmacist (Selection Grade - II) — Page No.: 68 - 69
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Pharmacist (Selection Grade - I) — Page No.: 70 - 71
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Junior Assistant — Page No.: 72- 73
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Senior Assistant — Page No.: 74 - 75
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Assistant (Selection Grade - II) — Page No.: 76-77
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Assistant (Selection Grade - I) — Page No.: 78 - 79
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Superintendent — Page No.: 80 - 81
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Senior Superintendent — Page No.: 82 - 83
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Superintendent (Selection Grade - II) — Page No.: 84 - 85
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Superintendent (Selection Grade - I) — Page No.: 86 - 87
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Stenographer — Page No.: 88
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Senior Stenographer — Page No.: 89 - 90
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Stenographer (Selection Grade - II) — Page No.: 91 - 92
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Stenographer (Selection Grade - I) — Page No.: 93 - 94
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Personal Assistant — Page No.: 95
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Senior Personal Assistant — Page No.: 96- 97
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Private Secretary — Page No.: 98 - 99
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: OfficeAttendant / Lab Attendant — Page No.: 100
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Senior Office Attendant / Senior Lab Attendant — Page No.: 101
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Office Attendant (SG - II) / Lab Attendant (SG – II) — Page No.: 102
(K. Rajan) Under Secretary to the Government of India Tel: 23384159 | INDEX: RRs for the Posts: Office Attendant (SG - I) / Lab Attendant (SG - I) — Page No.: 103
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA MINISTRY OF HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION
Recruitment Rules for the Non - Teaching posts in National Institutes of Technology (NITs)
Short title and commencement: These rules may be called the NITs NonTeaching Recruitment Rules, 2019. These shall come into force from the date of their acceptance / adoption by the Board of Governors of the concerned Institute.
Definitions : In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires;
"Act"means National Institutes of Technology, Science Education and Research (NITSER)Act, 2007.
"Statutes" means the First Statutes of the NITs and the Statutes subsequently framed by the respective NIT or framed by the Ministry of Human Resource Development.
"Service Rules" means Service Rules of the respective NIT.
Method of Recruitment and other matters: The method of recruitment and other matters relating to the post of non-teaching shall be specified in the Annexure attached to these rules.
Disqualification: No p o person,
(i) Who had entered into or contracted a marriage with a person having a spouse living; or
(ii) Who having a spouse living, has entered into or contracted a marriage with any person.
shall be eligible for appointment to the said post;
k.loga Page 1 of 103
provided that the Board of Governors may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the personal law applicable to such a person and the other party to the marriage and that there were other grounds for so doing, exempt any person from the operation of this rule.
Saves r ts s rs rs sSn oage limit and other concessions required to be provided for the candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes, Ex-servicemen andother special categories of persons in accordance with the orrcst t t t or l a t t or. These rules shall also not affect the recruitments already made; but any appointment or promotion proposed to be made or made subsequent to the notification of these Recruitment Rules will be governed by these Recruitment Rules.
Other conditions of service: The other conditions of service of the nonteaching official for which no specific provisions have been made in these rules shall be regulated in accordance with such rules as are, from time to time, applicable as per the First Statutes of the NITs and the subsequent amendments. For matters not covered by the Statutes, the corresponding Central Government Rules shall be applicable.
Qualifications and other requirements of Selection: Qualifications and other requirements of recruitment various non-teaching posts are given in detail in the Annexure.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of NITSER.
ANNEXURE
Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of REGISTRAR in NITs
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Name of the Post — Criteria: Registrar
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Number of Post(s) — Criteria: 01
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Classification — Criteria: Group - A
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Scale of Pay (Grade Pay, Band Pay) — Criteria: PB 4 (Rs.37400-67000) with Grade Pay of Rs.10000/-
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Whether Selection Post or non-Selection Posts — Criteria: Not Applicable
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Age limit — Criteria: 56 years
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Educational and other qualifications required for direct recruits — Criteria: Not Applicable
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Whether age and educational qualifications prescribed for direct recruits — Criteria: Not Applicable
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Period of probation, if any — Criteria: Not Applicable
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Method of Recruitment : whether by direct recruitment or by promotion or by deputation or transfer à percentage of the vacancies to be filled by various methods — Criteria: Deputation (including Short Term Contract) for a period of 5 years or till attaining the age of 62 years whichever is earlier, or as fixed by Govt. of India by orders issued in this regard from time to time.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: In case of recruitment by deputation 1 transfer, grades from which deputation / transfer to be made — Criteria: Deputation (including Short Term Contract), Officers under the Central / State Governments / Universities / Recognized Research Institutes or Institute of national importance or Govt. laboratory or PSU:- Educational Qualification & Experience: Essential Educational Qualification: Masters' degree with at least 55%Marks or its equivalent grade 'B’ in the UGC 7 point scale from a recognized University/Institute. Experience: i) Holding analogous post. ii) At least 15 year's experience as Assistant Professor in the AGP of 7000/- and above
K.layn K.loyi
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of REGISTRAR in NITs: Criteria: or with 8 years of service in the AGP of 8000/- and above including as Associate Professor along with 3 years experience in educational administration, or iii) Comparable experience in research establishment and /or other institutions of higher education, or iv) 15 years of administrative experience, of which 8 years shall be as Deputy Registrar or an equivalent post in the GP of Rs.7600/- or above. Desirable: i) Qualification in area of Management Engineering /Law. ii) Experience in computerized administration / legal / financial / establishment matters.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: If DPC exists, what is its composition — Criteria: Not Applicable
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Circumstances in which UPSC is to be consulted in making recruitment — Criteria: Not Applicable
Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY REGISTRAR in NITs
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Name of the Post — Criteria: Deputy Registrar
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Number of Post(s) — Criteria: As per sanctioned strength
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Classification — Criteria: Group -A
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Scale of Pay (Grade Pay, Band Pay) — Criteria: PB 3 (Rs.15600-39100/-) with Grade Pay of Rs.7600/. After five years of service as Deputy Registrar with Grade Pay of Rs.7600/- an incumbent will be assessed by Departmental Promotion Committee (DPC) for moving to the higher grade in PB-4 (Rs.37400 - 67000/-) with Grade Pay of Rs.8700/- and re-designated as Joint Registrar (personal to the incumbent).
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Whether Selection Post or non-Selection Posts — Criteria: Not applicable
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Age limit for direct recruits — Criteria: Not exceeding 50 years
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Educational and other qualifications required for direct recruits — Criteria: Essential: Educational Qualification: Master's degree in any discipline with at least 55% marks or its equivalent Grade in the CGPA / UGC point scale with good academic record from a recognized University/Institute. Experience: i) 9 years experience of Assistant Professor in the AGP of Rs.6000/- and above with 3 years of experience in educational administration, or ii) Comparable experience in research establishment and/ or other institutions of higher education, or iii). 5 years of administrative experience as Assistant Registrar in the Grade Pay of Rs.5400/- or equivalent post. Desirable: i) Qualification in area of Management / Engineering /Law. ii) Experience of working in E-Office system. iii) A Chartered or Cost Accountant degree or diploma for the post of Deputy Registrar (Finance &t Accounts) or Deputy Registrar (Internal Audit).
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Whether age and educational qualifications prescribed for direct recruits will apply in the case of promotees — Criteria: Age bar: Not applicable Educational qualification: No, but must possess at least Master's degree in any discipline or equivalent from a recognized University Institute.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Period of probation, if any — Criteria: 1 year for direct recruits as per NIT Statutes.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Method of Recruitment : whether by direct recruitment Jo by promotion or by deputation or transfer & percentage of the vacancies to be filled by various methods — Criteria: 75% Direct Recruitment failing which by deputation (including Short Term contract) 25% on promotion failing which by deputation (including Short Term contract)
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: In case of recruitment by promotion / deputation, grades from which promotion / deputation to be made — Criteria: Promotion: Assistant Registrar with a regular service at least 10 years, with at least 5 years with GP of Rs.6600/- and working performance record (APAR).
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: In case of recruitment by promotion / deputation, grades from which promotion / deputation to be made — Criteria: Deputation (including Short Term Contract): Officers from the Central/ State Government or Institute of national importance or Universities / University level Institution or PSU / Industry: a) i) holding analogous post or ii)10 years of administrative experience at the level of Assistant Registrar in the Grade Pay of Rs.5400/- or in the combination of Grade Pay of Rs.5400/- or Rs.6600/- or its equivalent. b) Possessing educational 1 qualification as prescribed in Row 7
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: If DPC exists, what is its composition — Criteria: As per the provisions contained in the NITSER Act, 2007, First Statutes and the subsequent Statutes.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Circumstances in which UPSC is to be consulted in making recruitment — Criteria: Not Applicable
ly
Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT REGISTRAR in NITs
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Name of the Post — Criteria: Assistant Registrar
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Number of Post(s) — Criteria: As per sanctioned strength
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Classification — Criteria: Group - A
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Scale of Pay (Grade Pay, Band Pay) — Criteria: PB: 3 (Rs.15,600-39,100) with Grade Pay of Rs.5400/-. After five years of service as Assistant Registrar with GP of Rs.5400/-, an incumbent will be assessed by Departmental Promotion Committee (DPC) for moving to the higher GP of Rs.6600/- with the same designation.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Whether Selection Post or non-Selection Posts — Criteria: Not applicable
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Age limit for direct recruits — Criteria: Not exceeding 35 years Note:- Relaxable for Departmental Candidates upto five years in accordance with the instructions or orders issued by the Central Government.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Educational and other qualifications required for direct recruits — Criteria: Essential: Educational Qualification & Experience: Master's degree in any discipline with at least 55% marks or its equivalent Grade in the CGPA / UGC point scale with good academic record from a recognized University / Institute. r Employees serving as Superintendent (SG-I) / Private Secretary (NFG) in PB-2, GP of Rs.5400/- with at least two years regular service or Superintendent (SG-II) / Private Secretary (NFG) in PB-2 GP of Rs.4800/- with at least five years regular service with Master's degree. Desirable: i) Qualification in area of Management Engineering / Law. ii) Experience of working in E-Office system. iii) A Chartered or Cost Accountant for the post of Assistant Registrar (Finance & Accounts).
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Whether age and educational qualifications prescribed for direct recruits will apply in the case of promotees — Criteria: Age bar: Not applicable Educational qualification: No, but must possess at least Master's degree in any discipline or its equivalent from a recognized University/Institute
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Period of probation, if any — Criteria: 1 year for direct recruits as per NIT Statutes.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Method of Recruitment : whether by direct recruitment Jo by promotion or by deputation or transfer &t percentage of the vacancies to be filled by various methods — Criteria: 75% Direct recruitment failing which by deputation (including Short Term contract) 25% by Promotion failing which by deputation (including Short Term contract).
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: In case of recruitment by promotion / deputation / transfer, grades from which promotion deputation / transfer to be made — Criteria: Promotion: Employees the Institute serving as Superintendent (SG-I) / Private Secretary (NFG) in PB-2, GP of Rs.5400/- with at least two years regular service or Superintendent (SG-Il) / Private Secretary (NFG) in PB-2 GP of Rs.4800/- with at least five years regular service and working performance record (APAR), through prescribed test and interview.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: In case of recruitment by promotion / deputation / transfer, grades from which promotion deputation / transfer to be made — Criteria: Deputation (including Short Term Contract): Officers from the Central / State Governments or Institute of national importance or Universities / University level Institution or Govt. laboratory or PSU a) Holding analogous post and b) Possessing educational qualification as prescribed in Row 7.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: If DPC exists, what is its composition — Criteria: As per the provisions contained in the NITSER Act, 2007, the First Statutes and the subsequent Statutes.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT REGISTRAR in NITs: Particular: Circumstances in which UPSC is to be consulted in making recruitment — Criteria: Not Applicable
kly
Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of LIBRARIAN in NITs
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Name of the Post — Criteria: Librarian
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Number of Post(s) — Criteria: As per sanctioned strength
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Classification — Criteria: Group - A
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Scale of Pay (Grade Pay, Band Pay) — Criteria: PB 4 (Rs.37400-67000) with GP of Rs.10000/-
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Whether Selection Post or non-Selection Posts — Criteria: Not applicable
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Age limit for direct recruits — Criteria: 56 years
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Educational and other qualifications required for direct recruits — Criteria: Educational Qualification and Experience: Essential: Educational Qualification: Master's Degree in LibraryScience/ Information Science/Documentation with CGPA of 6.5 in 10 points scale or at least 60% marks or its equivalent grade of 'B’ in the UGC seven point scale and a consistently good academic record set out in these Regulations. Experience: i) holding analogous post or ii) At least ten years' experience as a Deputy Librarian in the library of technical University, educational institute of national importance, or any other large technical library at least 3 years being spent on a post in PB-4 (Rs.37400 - 67000/- ) with GP of Rs.8700/- or an equivalent post. iii) Experience (supported with evidence) of innovative Library service and commitment for computerization of library. Desirable: Higher degree (Ph. D. or equivalent) in a relevant Discipline directly relevant to Library Science/ Information Science/Documentation.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Whether age and educational qualifications prescribed for direct recruits will apply in the case of promotees — Criteria: Not applicable
Kk.ly kly
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Period of probation, if any — Criteria: 1 year for direct recruits as per NIT Statutes.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Method of Recruitment whether by direct recruitment or by promotion oo by deputation or transfer &t percentage of the vacancies to be filled by various methods — Criteria: 100% Direct recruitment failing which by Deputation (including Short Term Contract) for a period of 5 years or till attaining the age of 62 years whichever is earlier, or as fixed by Govt. of India by orders issued in this regard from time to time. Note: Age Limit :- not exceeding 56 years
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: In case of recruitment by promotion/deputation/abs orption, grades from which promotion/ deputation/ transfer to be made — Criteria: Deputation (including Short Term Contract): Officers from the Central/ State Government or Institutes of national importance or universities/ University level institution or PSU; and a) i) holding analogous post or ii) With at least 3 years service in posts in PB-4 (Rs.37400-67000/-) with GP of Rs.8700/- or AGP of Rs.9000/- or its equivalent and having experience of innovative Library service and commitment for computerization of library. b) Possessing educational qualification and experience as prescribed in Row 7. Desirable: Higher degree (Ph. D. or equivalent) in a relevant Discipline directly relevant to Library Science/ Information Science/Documentation.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: If DPC exists, what is its composition — Criteria: Not applicable.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Circumstances in which UPSC is to be consulted in making recruitment — Criteria: Not Applicable
Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY LIBRARIAN in NITs
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Name of the Post — Criteria: Deputy Librarian
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Number of Post(s) — Criteria: As per sanctioned strength.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Classification — Criteria: Group - A
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Scale of pay (Grade Pay, Band Pay) — Criteria: PB 3 (Rs.15,600 - 39,100/-) with GP of Rs.7600/-After Five yearsof service asDeputy Librarian with GP of Rs.7600/-, an incumbent will be assessed by Departmental Promotion Committee (DPC) for moving to the higher grade in PB-4 (Rs.37400 - 67000/-) with GP of Rs.8700/- with the same designation. Note: Those who are already appointed on AGP of Rs.8000/- may continue with same AGP as recommendedby the Selection Committee till 5 yrs of their service. Already appointed on AGP of Rs.8000/- shall move to GP of Rs.8700/- instead of AGP of Rs.9000/- (As there is no GP exist at Rs.8000/- and Rs.9000/- in Non- Teaching) after 5 yrs of their service. No further recruitment will be made on AGP of Rs.8000/-.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Whether Selection Post or non-Selection Posts — Criteria: Not applicable
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Age limit for direct recruits — Criteria: Not exceeding 50 years
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Educational and other qualifications required for direct recruits — Criteria: Educational Qualification & Experience: Essential: Educational Qualification: (i) Master's Degree in Library Science/ Information Science/Documentation with CGPA of 6.5 in 10 points scale or at least 60% of the marks or its equivalent grade of 'B'. in the UGC seven point scale and a consistently good academic record. (ii) Qualifying in the national level test such as NET / SLET / SET conducted for the purposed by the UGC or any other agency approved by the UGC. Experience: Five years' experience as an Assistant University Librarian / College Librarian or an equivalent post with GP of Rs.5400/- or above.
k.lbyg kly
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Whether age and educational qualifications prescribed for direct recruits will apply in the case of promotees — Criteria Desirable: 1) Experience (supported with evidence) of innovative Library service and commitment for computerization of library. fi) Higher degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) in a: relevant Discipline directly relevant to Library Science / Information Science / Documentation. Age bar: Not applicable Educational qualification: No, but must possess at least Master's degree in Library Science / Information Science / Documentation Science or equivalent from a recognized University / Institute.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Period of probation, if any — Criteria Desirable: 1) Experience (supported with evidence) of innovative Library service and commitment for computerization of library. fi) Higher degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) in a: 1 year for direct recruits as per NIT Statutes.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Method of Recruitment whether by direct recruitment or by promotion or by deputation transfer & percentage of the vacancies to be filled by various methods — Criteria Desirable: 1) Experience (supported with evidence) of innovative Library service and commitment for computerization of library. fi) Higher degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) in a: 50% Direct recruitment, failing which by deputation (including Short Term contract). 50% by promotion failing which by deputation (including Short Term contract).
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: In case of recruitment by promotion / deputation / absorption, grades from which promotion deputation / absorption to be made. — Criteria Desirable: 1) Experience (supported with evidence) of innovative Library service and commitment for computerization of library. fi) Higher degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) in a: Promotion: From Assistant Librarian with a regular service of at least 10 years with relevant experience out of which at least 5 years should be with GP of Rs.6600/- or AGP of Rs.7000/- and working performance record(APAR).
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: In case of recruitment by promotion / deputation / absorption, grades from which promotion deputation / absorption to be made. — Criteria Desirable: 1) Experience (supported with evidence) of innovative Library service and commitment for computerization of library. fi) Higher degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) in a: Deputation (including Short Term Contract): Officers from the Central/ State Government or Institutes of national importance or universities/ University level institution or PSU: a) i) holding analogous post or; ii)10 years of experience at the level of Assistant Librarian in the Grade Pay of Rs.5400/- or in combination of Grade Pay of Rs.5400/- or Rs.6600/- or its equivalent. b) Possessing educational qualification as prescribed in Row 7.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: If DPC exists, what is its composition — Criteria Desirable: 1) Experience (supported with evidence) of innovative Library service and commitment for computerization of library. fi) Higher degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) in a: As per the provisions contained in the NITSER Act, 2007, First Statutes and the subsequent Statutes.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of DEPUTY LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Circumstances in which UPSC is to be consulted in making recruitment — Criteria Desirable: 1) Experience (supported with evidence) of innovative Library service and commitment for computerization of library. fi) Higher degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) in a: Not Applicable
Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT LIBRARIAN in NITs
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Name of the Post — Criteria: Assistant Librarian
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Number of Post(s) — Criteria: As per sanctioned strength
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Classification — Criteria: Group - A
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Scale of pay (Grade Pay, Band Pay) — Criteria: PB 3 (Rs.15,600 - 39,100) with GP of Rs.5400/-. After Five years of service as Assistant Librarian with GP of Rs.5400/-, an incumbent will be assessed by Departmental Promotion Committee (DPC) for moving to the higher GP of Rs.6600/- with the same designation. Note: Those who are already appointed on AGP of Rs.6000/- may contínue with same AGP as recommended by the Selection Committee till 5 yrs of their service. Already appointed on AGP of Rs.6000/- shall move to GP of Rs.6600/- instead of AGP of Rs.7000/- (As there is no GP exist at Rs.6000/- and Rs.7000/- in Non-Teaching) after 5 yrs of their service. No further recruitment will be made on AGP of Rs.6000/-.
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Whether Selection Post or non-Selection Posts — Criteria: Not applicable
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Age limit for direct recruits — Criteria: Not exceeding 35 years Note:- Relaxable for Departmental Candidates upto five years in accordance with the instructions or orders issued by the Central Government
These rules are bare minimum and the Board of Governors can however fix higher benchmarks, higher than the prescribed, in consultation with the Council of... | Recruitment Rules (2019) for the post of ASSISTANT LIBRARIAN in NITs: Particular: Educational and other qualifications required for direct recruits — Criteria: Educational Qualification & Experience: Essential: Educational Qualification: (i) Master's Degree in Library Science / Information Science / Documentation Science with at least 60% marks or an equivalent Professional degree or its equivalent with equivalent grade (6.5 in 10 point scale) or its equivalent grade of 'B'. in the UGC seven point scale and a consistently good academic record with superior knowledge of computerized library service. (ii) Qualifying in the national level test such as NET/SLET/SET conducted for the purposed by the UGC or any other agency approved by the UGC.
Kkily
