SOURCE_URL: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1tGjUJ7x-vBEQfpu1p7-_bKG43DLfye9W/view
TITLE: Terms and Conditions for Vendor Registration
FETCHED: 2024-06-03
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/library-and-information-center/
---
Document: Terms and Conditions for Vendor Registration (dated 2024-06-03)
VISVESVARAYA NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY Library & Information Resource Centre
Terms & Conditions for Library Vendor/ Supplier Registration
Terms and conditions for library vendor registration and empanelment for supply of books and other educational resources to the Library & Information Resource Centre, VNIT, Nagpur.
A. Terms and Conditions
Librarian will recommend the books and other resources for the library and follow institutes procurement procedure.
For registration of vendor /supplier fee will be charged Rs.5000, which will be nonrefundable and will be valid for next five years.
Registration of vendor will be cancelled if he does not respond to 3 consecutive queries.
Vendors /suppliers shall normally collect supply orders from the dispatch section, VNIT and also give acknowledgement of the receipt of supply orders with date and stamp.
Vendor should supply the ordered books within a period of 30 days for Indian publications and 60 days for international publications failing which the order will be cancelled without notice and the vendor/supplier blacklisted from the supplier list.
Unless otherwise mentioned, only latest editions, reprints and revised editions of publications should be supplied against the orders.
In case the vendor/supplier is an exclusive distributor of a foreign publisher, then a copy of such a certification or a letter from the publisher should be submitted along with this application.
All items should be of latest paperback editions, unless otherwise specifically mentioned.
Books of Indian reprints/ editions, if available, should be supplied. The Librarian should be consulted beforehand if suppliers/vendors/publishers intend to supply hardback editions, if the ordered paperback edition is not available.
Books priced in foreign currencies, may be converted to Indian rupees on prevailing GOC conversion rates. Attested copy of the GOC rates shall be enclosed by the vendor/ supplier.
Quotations will be called for and suppliers/ vendors offering the lowest price and highest discount for both Indian and international publications, will be chosen to fulfill the orders placed.
The vendors/supplier shall certify on the bills /invoice that:
 Only the latest editions of the books have been supplied.
 Prices charged are as per Current Publisher's Catalogue/ Current Publisher's invoice/Current Import invoice/ Current Distributor's Invoice etc. as per the case
No excises duty/custom/octroi should be applicable for library supplies.
In case of any, the Librarian should be informed in advance about the same and the vendor/supplier should pay the same and clear the consignment and get it paid by producing the original receipt along with the invoice.
The publication supplied must be new and in good condition without any defects/damage and the vendor/ supplier should replace the same in case of defects and damages at no additional cost.
The vendor/ supplier should honor the order for supply of books and other material as per the supply order, irrespective of number of copies.
VISVESVARAYA NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY Library & Information Resource Centre
In case of non-availability of a title or edition, the vendor should take prior approval from the Librarian to replace it with similar titles or alternate editions.
Bills/ invoices should be raised separately for books priced in Indian rupees and foreign currencies.
Bills/ invoices should be raised in quadruplet in the name of 'The Director, VNIT, Nagpur.' And the contents type written clearly. The bills/ invoices should contain PAN and other tax details and should be enclosed with price proofs and delivered to the Librarian, VNIT, Nagpur.
The terms and conditions for vendor may be amended from time to time and the same will be binding to the registered vendor
Registrar VNIT, Nagpur
