SOURCE_URL: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ewG3zgeNRw16Ca84MB-6lJ6qhfQq7ta9/view
TITLE: International Advisory Committee(IAC)
FETCHED: 2025-07-14
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/5g-lab-vnit-nagpur
---
Document: International Advisory Committee(IAC) (dated 2025-07-14)
विश्वेश्वरय्या राष्ट् र ीय प्रौद्योविकी संस्थान , नािपुर
VISVESVARAYA NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, NAGPUR Office of Dean (International Affairs and Alumni)
International Advisory Committee (IAC)
Patron Hon. Madabhushi Madan Gopal, Chairman BOG, VNIT, Nagpur
Chairman Prof. Prem Lal Patel, Director VNIT Nagpur
Vice-Chairman
Prof. Sudarshan Kumar , Professor and Former Head, Department of Aerospace, IIT Bombay is a Fellow of The Combustion Institute, USA. He is the first from India to be selected as Fellow of the Combustion Institute. He is currently Dean of International Activities at IIT Bombay.
Member
Prof. Nemkumar (Nemy) Banthia is a University Killam Professor at The University of British Columbia. His primary area of research is in Sustainable Concrete Infrastructure with emphasis on nano-modified fiber reinforced composites, ultra-high performance concrete materials, etc. He also spearheads the India-Canada Centre for Innovative Multidisciplinary Partnerships to Accelerate Community Transformation and Sustainability (IC-IMPACTS) as its Scientific Director and CEO.
Member
Prof. Dr. Mohan Lal Kolhe is a full professor in smart grid and renewable energy at the Faculty of Engineering and Science of the University of Agder (Norway). He is a leading renewable energy technologist with three decades of academic experience at the international level and previously held academic positions at the world's prestigious universities, e.g., University College London (UK / Australia), University of Dundee (UK), etc. He was a member of the Government of South Australia's first Renewable Energy Board (2009-2011).
Member
Mr. M. S. Unnikrishnan is currently the CEO of IIT Bombay - Monash Research Academy. Prior to his current role, he was the Managing Director & CEO of Thermax Limited, the energy and environment solutions major. He graduated in Mechanical Engineering from VNIT, Nagpur in 1982 and has completed his Advanced Management Program from Harvard Business School, USA.
Member
Prof. Rajkumar Buyya He is a distinguished Professor and Director of the Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems Laboratory at the University of Melbourne. Dr. Rajkumar Buyya is a Redmond Barry Distinguished Professor and Director of the Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems (CLOUDS) Laboratory at the University of Melbourne, Australia. He is also serving as the founding CEO of Manjrasoft, a spin-off company of the University, commercialising its innovations in Cloud Computing.
Member
Dr. Dinesh Keskar In 1980, joined The Boeing Company, where he has held senior positions in engineering, marketing and sales. He held the dual positions of vice president of Boeing International and president of Boeing India. In 2004 Dr. Keskar served as Vice-President of Boeing Commercial Airplanes , in south and south east Asia. From 2009 and until February 2012 he served as Vice-President of Boeing International and President of Boeing India.
Member
Prof. Budaraju Srinivasa Murty was awarded the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science and Technology, the highest science award in India, for the year 2007 in engineering science category. From August 2019 he serves as the Director of Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad. Prior to that he was head of department at Indian Institute of Technology Madras and Professor at Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur.
Member Shri. Sachin. S. Jagdale, Registrar, VNIT, Nagpur
Member Secretary Prof. Kishor. M. Bhurchandi,
Dean (International Affairs & Alumni)
