SOURCE_URL: https://drive.google.com/file/d/15An6t9CwAboPzJDmMYBqWwx2BCJDeZeb/view
TITLE: EARTH Scholarships for PhD & Early Career Researchers – 2025
FETCHED: 2024-09-14
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/section/academics/notice/
---
Document: EARTH Scholarships for PhD & Early Career Researchers – 2025 (dated 2024-09-14)
Falvin agun Daomnuehdan
SGSAH & British Council Scotland
EARTH Scholarships for PhD & Early Career Researchers - 2025
Transnational Research: Environment, Arts, Humanities
Guidelines for Applicants
August 2024 (v2)
Please ensure that this is the most recent version of the Guidelines, accessible via:
https://www.sgsah.ac.uk/prospective/earth-scholarships-2025/
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event
Contents
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Introduction...............................................................................................................................5
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: British Council Scotland SGSAH EARTH Scholarships 2025..........................................6
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Overview | ...........................................................................................................................6
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: The Programme...............................................................................................................6
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Clusters .............................................................................................................................8
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Cohort Building, Training and Development ............................................................ | 10
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Equalities Statement ............................................................................................................ | 11
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Key Dates .............................................................................................................................. | 12
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Eligibility ................................................................................................................................. | 13
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Insurance ............................................................................................................................... | 13
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Application process .............................................................................................................. | 14
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Introduction.................................................................................................................... | 14
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Finding a Mentor and Host HEI.................................................................................. | 14
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Application deadlines ................................................................................................... | 15
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: The Online Application System .................................................................................. | 15
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Guidance on completing the application form ................................................................. | 16
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: General notes on the application ............................................................................... | 16
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Route | .............................................................................................................................. 16
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Personal details ............................................................................................................ | 16
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Date of Award of PhD .................................................................................................. | 16
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Home and Host Institutions......................................................................................... | 16
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Title of your PhD | ........................................................................................................... 16
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Arts & Humanities Subject Areas............................................................................... | 16
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Research Project Host Institution .............................................................................. | 16
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Cluster Membership ..................................................................................................... | 16
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Thematic Focus ............................................................................................................ | 17
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Exceptional Circumstances for Extension to the 1-year period from date of award of PhD (300 words maximum)........................................................................ | 17
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Research Project Proposal Summary (100 words maximum) .............................. | 17
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Research Proposal (1000 words maximum)............................................................ | 17
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Cluster Membership, Cohort-Building, Training and Development (300 words maximum) ...................................................................................................................... | 18
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Budget and Justification of Resources (300 words maximum)............................. | 18
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Additional Document Uploads .................................................................................... 19
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Equal Opportunities Monitoring Form ....................................................................... 20
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Assessment Criteria ............................................................................................................. 21
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Guidance for Mentors and Host HEIs ............................................................................... 26
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Communication ..................................................................................................................... 27
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Acknowledgement of Funders/Award and Promotion of Award ................................... 27
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: FAQs ...................................................................................................................................... 28
Version 2 27 August 2024 Changes: Updated Cluster Membership Link to recording of Launch event | Contents: Further queries and contact details ................................................................................... 30
Introduction
The Scottish Graduate School for Arts & Humanities (SGSAH ) is the world's first national graduate school in the Arts & Humanities, established in 2014 with a mission to work in partnership to offer unparalleled training and support to doctoral researchers in Scotland.
SGSAH's 1 7 Higher Education Institute (HEI) members cover the whole of Scotland, from the Highlands and Islands to the Scottish Borders. Rooted in Scotland, SGSAH is an integral part of Scot tish, UK and international civil society. Working with SGSAH's supporters in the arts, culture, creative and heritage sectors, SGSAH supports positive connections and productive networks locally, regionally and globally to provide outstanding opportunities for doctoral researchers in Scotland.
The 17 SGSAH HEIs are:
SGSAH's 1 7 Higher Education Institute (HEI) members cover the whole of Scotland, from the Highlands and Islands to the Scottish Borders. | The 17 SGSAH HEIs are: Abertay University | University of Dundee
SGSAH's 1 7 Higher Education Institute (HEI) members cover the whole of Scotland, from the Highlands and Islands to the Scottish Borders. | The 17 SGSAH HEIs are: Edinburgh Napier University | University of Edinburgh
SGSAH's 1 7 Higher Education Institute (HEI) members cover the whole of Scotland, from the Highlands and Islands to the Scottish Borders. | The 17 SGSAH HEIs are: Glasgow Caledonian University | University of Glasgow
SGSAH's 1 7 Higher Education Institute (HEI) members cover the whole of Scotland, from the Highlands and Islands to the Scottish Borders. | The 17 SGSAH HEIs are: The Glasgow School of Art | University of St Andrews
SGSAH's 1 7 Higher Education Institute (HEI) members cover the whole of Scotland, from the Highlands and Islands to the Scottish Borders. | The 17 SGSAH HEIs are: Heriot-Watt University | University of Stirling
SGSAH's 1 7 Higher Education Institute (HEI) members cover the whole of Scotland, from the Highlands and Islands to the Scottish Borders. | The 17 SGSAH HEIs are: Queen Margaret University | University of Strathclyde
SGSAH's 1 7 Higher Education Institute (HEI) members cover the whole of Scotland, from the Highlands and Islands to the Scottish Borders. | The 17 SGSAH HEIs are: Robert Gordon University | University of the Highlands & Islands
SGSAH's 1 7 Higher Education Institute (HEI) members cover the whole of Scotland, from the Highlands and Islands to the Scottish Borders. | The 17 SGSAH HEIs are: Royal Conservatoire of Scotland | University of the West of Scotland
SGSAH's 1 7 Higher Education Institute (HEI) members cover the whole of Scotland, from the Highlands and Islands to the Scottish Borders. | The 17 SGSAH HEIs are: University of Aberdeen
This document summarises the British Council Scotland SGSAH EARTH Scholarships 2025 and provides guideline for applicants and Host Institutions.
We encourage potential applicants and Host Institutions to read the guidance carefully in advance of preparing applications.
If you require any further information or clarification, then please contact us at enquiries@sgsah.ac.uk. Further information about SGSAH can be found on our website, via our monthly newsletter, and our social media accounts (Twitter, LinkedIn and Instagram).
British Council Scotland SGSAH EARTH Scholarships 2025
Overview
The British Council Scotland SGSAH EARTH Scholarships 2025 is a programme run by SGSAH with funding from the British Council to enable international research collaborations between PhD and Early Career Researchers and Scottish HEIs and Scotland-based academic mentors, and external organisations, thematically focused on environmental arts and humanities and their interdisciplinary connections. The overall aim of the programme is to promote the role and interventions of the environmental arts and humanities, and the arts and cultural sector, in addressing the climate emergency, and their capacity for interdisciplinary research within STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, the Arts, and Mathematics) contexts. The programme will create research opportunities and international mobility which will develop and support new approaches to address the global challenge of climate crisis, and support sustainable research and cultural interchanges within and beyond the arts and, humanities and cultural sectors.
It is anticipated that the British Council Scotland funding will support 7-9 researchers in total, with additional cohort members deriving from SGSAH's AHRC - and SFC-funded PhD researchers.
The principles of this programme build on SGSAH's Internationalisation ambitions and actions, align with SGSAH's GREEN/GRADUATE Strategy and Operational Plan, and with the British Council's broader objectives of their flagship Going Global Partnerships programme. The programme will be structured around two of SGSAH's strategic themes and priority areas; the Environmental Humanities and Creative Industries/Economies, with a focus on climate emergency themes, the interventions of the arts and cultural sector, and the legacy of COP26, held in Glasgow in 2021. The programme will enrich collaborations between Scottish and international HEIs , building on SGSAH's Global Connects programmes, and the SFC Saltire Emerging Researcher scheme.
The programme ran for the first time in 2023. Profiles of the 2023 and 2024 EARTH Scholars are available on the SGSAH website at https://www.sgsah.ac.uk/news/earth-scholars-2023/ and https://www.sgsah.ac.uk/news/earth-scholars-2024/. Recordings of the research presentations by the 2023 Scholars are available here, along with research showcases here: https://sgsahresearch.com/earth-scholars/
The 2025 programme will have a particular focus on interdisciplinarity across STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, the Arts, and Mathematics). There will be a thematic focus on Women in STEAM, Inclusive Education, Green Energy and Gender Equality. This focus aligns with the British Council's Overseas Development Assistance goals, Going Global Partnerships, and Climate Connections legacy programme, and SGSAH's GREEN/GRADUATE Strategy, as well as two of SGSAH's Strategic Themes and Priority Areas (STPAs); the Environmental Humanities and Creative Industries/ Economies, and the UN's SDGs and the Scottish Government's NPF Outcomes.
The Programme
The scholarships are for PhD and early career researchers (ECRs) in the Arts & Humanities to benefit from a concerted period of time spent in Scotland in 2025, working with a mentor and accessing the networks and resources of a Host Institution and broader Cluster (see below).
The scholarships could include a second HEI, but there must be one clear Host Institution which provides a mentor and a Letter of Support. This Host Institution must be one of the SGSAH HEIs. The SGSAH member HEIs are detailed in the Introduction to these Guidelines. Similarly, the scholarship could also include an external organisation (e.g. a creative business or organisation with significant concerns and expertise in relation to climate crisis), but the Host Institution must still be an HEI, and there must be an obvious link between the HEI and the intended external organisation.
The scholarships will take place between April and July 2025 (including a compulsory, in-person cohort training programme in April/May 2025). It is expected that successful applicants - for environmental and economic reasons - only travel once to Scotland, and therefore build proposals around the April/May 2025 programme. Scholarship proposals can be structured to further existing work being undertaken as a PhD or postdoctoral project, or be a discrete, standalone project which nonetheless furthers the knowledge base, networks and expertise of the researcher. The scholarship can also be structured as the researcher joining and furthering an existing project at the Host Institution. A range of outcomes and outputs are anticipated, depending on the nature of the proposed exchange.
Scholarship proposals may include in-person and hybrid aspects and can last from six weeks (ie 45 days) to three months (ie 90 days), including the 10 day cohort programme in April/May 2025. The programme includes an in-person, hybrid and online cohort development programme to nurture PhD and ECR perspectives, skills and qualities. Scholarship holders will additionally have the opportunity to showcase their work through SGSAH's online research showcase, and participate in the 2025 SGSAH Global Connects programme.
Clusters
The EARTH Scholarships will take advantage of and be located within three geographically and thematically structured Clusters, which will offer research placements, training and development opportunities for researchers, and contribute to cohort training in April/May 2025. The Clusters will enable:
Wider awareness and study of environmental arts and humanities disciplines in the Scottish context
Interdisciplinary working within and beyond the arts and humanities (STEAM)
Field trips and engagement with other scholars, practitioners and professionals
Access to arts and cultural sector organisations, resources, expertise and experience in different geographical contexts, including urban and rural areas.
The three Clusters are:
Cluster 1: Place, time and action
HEIs: University of Aberdeen, Abertay University, University of Dundee , University of the Highlands and Islands, Robert Gordon University, University of St Andrews
Academic Leads: Dr Ben Elliott (UHI, Cluster Lead); Dr Elodie Laügt (University of St Andrews; Cluster Deputy Lead)
We are a consortium of universities located mainly in the east and north of Scotland but also including researchers in archaeology and palaeoecology at the University of Glasgow. Our expertise stretches across the arts and humanities, from historical and political ecology, to modern policy making, to the psychology of behaviour change, and ecocritical approaches to literature, art, design and architecture. Within this, we have a focus on the historical and futures dimensions of environmental change and the potential offered therein by deep-time perspectives and indigenous oral histories, and on climate action research through creative practice, place-based research and other forms of engagement and participation. Our researchers are engaging with climate emergency themes through training, KE and within a research context. Running through all our activities is a strong commitment to interdisciplinary research. We would welcome applications that sit anywhere within these broad themes but also encourage applicants to explore linkages with existing research projects at one of our participating centres or research groups.
https://www.sgsah.ac.uk/prospective/earth-scholarships-2025/cluster-1/
Cluster 2: 3Ms: Making, Method and Multispecies
HEIs: University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh Napier University, GSA, Heriot Watt, RCS
Academic Leads: Dr Emily Alder (Edinburgh Napier University, Cluster Co-Lead); Dr Mark Hilley (University of Edinburgh, Cluster Co-Lead)
Cluster 2 will prioritise applications of high quality and originality that address the strength of Edinburgh research in three broad areas: Making , Method and Multispecies .
Making captures our long tradition of creative practice (from art, film, writing, performance, curating, gaming and beyond). Method foregrounds methodological diversity within the arts and humanities and also looks to learn from wider approaches in the social and environmental sciences, as well as considering issues of fieldwork, globalism/localism, communication, data, representation and exchange across the academic-public-political boundaries. Multispecies questions boundaries of animal-plant-fungal life, tackles issues of equality and justice, multisensorialism, extractivism, posthumanism, deep time, archaeology and heritage beyond the human alone.
The cluster delivers training through key existing research projects and centres including (but not limited to) The Edinburgh Environmental Humanities Network , The Institute of Advanced Studies in the Humanities , Humanimal Kind , The CRITIQUE Reading Group , British Animal Studies Network , The Edinburgh Futures Institute, Fossil-Fuel.ed
The wide range of Scottish sector partners and potential sites for research placements include Creative Scotland, Creative Carbon Scotland, Little Sparta, Fife Contemporary, Edinburgh Sculpture Workshop, The Barn, The Scottish Poetry Library
The cluster also commits to providing cross-cluster training where possible, and to hosting a cohortwide networking or programme event hosted by Hospitalfield, Cove Park, Talbot Rice Gallery, etc.
https://www.sgsah.ac.uk/prospective/earth-scholarships-2025/cluster-2/
Cluster 3: 'Triple E' - Economy, Ethics and Environment
HEIs: University of Glasgow, Glasgow Caledonian University, University of Stirling, University of Strathclyde, University of the West of Scotland
Academic Leads: Dr Charles Pigott (University of Strathclyde, Cluster Lead); Professor Mark Banks (University of Glasgow, Cluster Deputy Lead)
This cluster draws together a range of interdisciplinary arts and humanities expertise around three broad and inclusive themes; firstly, the cultural and creative economy and theories of its sustainable and socially-just future; secondly, issues of ethics , politics and political ecology as they play out in human and non-human contexts, and in different historical periods; and, thirdly, theories of environment , including creative approaches to researching species, energy, ecology and the geohumanities. The cluster will take an inclusive approach to these themes, and seek to deliver training through its range of key existing research projects and centres including (but not limited to) Centre for Cultural Policy Research, The Dear Green Bothy, Creative Geohumanities, A + E Collective (Glasgow), Centre for Environment Heritage and Policy (Stirling), British Animal Studies Network, One Ocean Hub (Strathclyde), Centre for Climate Justice (GCU), and the Protracted Crisis Research Centre (UWS) as well as other relevant academic groupings and affiliates. The wide range of Scottish sector partners and potential sites for research placements might include BBC Scotland, The Hunterian Museum, Creative Scotland, Creative Carbon Scotland, Fife Contemporary, the Scottish Council on Global Affairs, and Zero Waste Scotland inter alia - plus our members have an extensive range of international and institutional networks on which to draw in order to support student recruitment and training. The cluster also commits to providing cross-cluster training where possible, and to hosting a cohort-wide networking or programme event hosted by The Dear Green Bothy at the new University of Glasgow Advanced Research Centre (ARC).
https://www.sgsah.ac.uk/prospective/earth-scholarships-2025/cluster-3/
More details of each of the Clusters are available via the Programme webpages, with more details of the Clusters available at https://www.sgsah.ac.uk/prospective/earth-scholarships-2025/#/clusters.
Cohort Building, Training and Development
The EARTH scholarships ' cohort development activities for the programme are built on a hybrid model, to provide tangible learning outcomes and networking opportunities in order to support the cohort pre-and post-research placement, and to enable flexibility in the timing of scholarships to maximise opportunities in their receiving HEI and Cluster. There is a compulsory, in-person cohort development programme which will take place between 23 April-2 May 2025 for which successful applicants must be available in Scotland. This programme will form part of the (maximum) 3-month scholarship.
All EARTH scholarship holders will take part in cohort building and networking opportunities through the following activities:
Online pre-placement induction and training event, covering areas including cultural and institutional awareness, translating knowledge, and outlining key academic and professional practice
In-person cohort development programme in Scotland in April/May 2025 (between 23 April2 May 2025)
Regular hybrid social activities, including 'research sharing' opportunities, as well as an introductory 'residential' event
Showcasing of research during the SGSAH 2025 Global Connects: International Summer School programme (dates to be confirmed)
Engagement with SGSAH 2025 Summer School's extensive range of training and networking events (online and in-person, w/c 16 June 2025 (to be confirmed)
Dissemination of research at the end of the programme through SGSAH's Research Showcase website as a mechanism to promote individual research and the programme more broadly
1-day online post-placement training event outlining legacy of the research undertaken on the programme, and further career and network enhancing opportunities.
Equalities Statement
The British Council Scotland SGSAH EARTH Scholarships intend to ensure equity of experience and opportunity to access the programme, in alignment with SGSAH's existing Equality Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) policy. In so doing, SGSAH intends to remove barriers and widen access to international exchange, supporting active participation in mobility and global opportunities by creating an in-person, hybrid and online cohort development programme to nurture global PGR and ECR perspectives, skills and qualities. Core to the programme is an understanding that any international opportunity is accessible, ethical and diverse in terms of our researchers, international partners and the projects they propose to undertake.
Specifically, SGSAH 's programme includes:
An extended time period for ECR participation from 1 to 2 years post-PhD completion for individuals with circumstances such as caring responsibilities and mental and physical health issues, particular as exacerbated by COVID-19
A flexible approach to the structure of the proposed research project, including via online and hybrid approaches
A contingency fund for those with access requirements and additional responsibilities which might otherwise inhibit full participation in the programme
If you have any queries about SGSAH's approach with regards to EDI in this programme, including your particular circumstances and how we might support your application, please email enquiries@sgsah.ac.uk.
Key Dates
If you have any queries about SGSAH's approach with regards to EDI in this programme, including your particular circumstances and how we might support your... | Key Dates: Programme launch and call for applications Online Recording: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rNA1n4du 2CQ | Thursday 15 August 2024, 2-3pm BST
If you have any queries about SGSAH's approach with regards to EDI in this programme, including your particular circumstances and how we might support your... | Key Dates: Pre-application information sessions to be held on Zoom, recorded for subsequent reference:
If you have any queries about SGSAH's approach with regards to EDI in this programme, including your particular circumstances and how we might support your... | Key Dates: Introduction to the Programme Online Registration link: https://tockify.com/sgsah/detail/261/1724929 200000 (please note this session will be recorded) | Thursday 29 August 2024, 12-1pm BST
If you have any queries about SGSAH's approach with regards to EDI in this programme, including your particular circumstances and how we might support your... | Key Dates: Completing your Application Online Registration link: Registration link: https://tockify.com/sgsah/detail/262/1727269 200000 | Wednesday 25 September 2025, 2-3pm BST
If you have any queries about SGSAH's approach with regards to EDI in this programme, including your particular circumstances and how we might support your... | Key Dates: Information session for Host HEIs and Mentors Online Registration link: Registration link: https://tockify.com/sgsah/detail/263/1727953 200000 | Thursday 3 October, 12-1pm BST NB this session is not for applicants
If you have any queries about SGSAH's approach with regards to EDI in this programme, including your particular circumstances and how we might support your... | Key Dates: Application deadline | Friday 1 November 2024, 12pm GMT
If you have any queries about SGSAH's approach with regards to EDI in this programme, including your particular circumstances and how we might support your... | Key Dates: Notification of application outcomes | by Monday 2 December 2024
If you have any queries about SGSAH's approach with regards to EDI in this programme, including your particular circumstances and how we might support your... | Key Dates: Acceptance of award deadline | Monday 9 December 2025
If you have any queries about SGSAH's approach with regards to EDI in this programme, including your particular circumstances and how we might support your... | Key Dates: Online induction and scholarship preparation sessions | TBC: January and February 2025
If you have any queries about SGSAH's approach with regards to EDI in this programme, including your particular circumstances and how we might support your... | Key Dates: Research placements (6 weeks-3 months) | April-July 2025
If you have any queries about SGSAH's approach with regards to EDI in this programme, including your particular circumstances and how we might support your... | Key Dates: In-person cohort development programme | 23 April-2 May 2025
If you have any queries about SGSAH's approach with regards to EDI in this programme, including your particular circumstances and how we might support your... | Key Dates: SGSAH Summer School | TBC w/c 16 June 2025
If you have any queries about SGSAH's approach with regards to EDI in this programme, including your particular circumstances and how we might support your... | Key Dates: Global Connects 2025 programme | TBC: July 2025
Eligibility
The programme is open to applicants via two routes:
As a current PhD researcher in the Arts & Humanities registered at any non-UK university
As an ECR in the Arts & Humanities who graduated from any non-UK university
PhD researchers are able to apply at any stage of their PhD, but must have the full support of their supervisor within their Letter of Support. PhD researchers who are on the point of submitting their thesis, or are awaiting the outcomes of their examination process, should apply via the Current PhD researcher route.
For the purposes of this programme, ECRs must be within 1 year of notification of award of the PhD. Notification of award means the date at which you received formal notification that your PhD would be awarded/has passed, not the date of a graduation ceremony, receipt of a certificate, or viva defence or equivalent. As the programme launched in August 2024 with a deadline in November 2024, ECRs must therefore have received notification of award of PhD by 1 October 2023 or later .
Under exceptional circumstances the ECR time from notification of award can be extended from 1 to 2 years (ie from 1 October 2022 ). Exceptional circumstances might include substantial caring responsibilities, or physical or mental illness, including those brought about or intensified because of the circumstances of COVID-19. If you would want to claim exceptional circumstances, please do so via the designated section of the application form (see the Guidance on completing the application form for more detail on this).
All applicants must be currently registered for a PhD, or graduated with a PhD, which broadly falls under Arts & Humanities subject areas. These subject areas are detailed by the AHRC. Research proposals must also fall into Arts & Humanities subject areas. For any interdisciplinary PhDs, at least 50% of the project must fall within Arts & Humanities disciplines. The programme strongly encourages research project proposals that have interdisciplinarity approaches beyond the Arts & Humanities.
The Programme is open to all eligible PhDs/ECRs registered for or with completed PhDs from outside the UK but will particularly welcome applications from countries in the Global South and aligning with the Scottish Government's International Development Fund and its priority countries including Rwanda, Zambia, Pakistan, Malawi and India). See 'Assessment Criteria' for more detail.
Insurance
If you are offered an award, you will be asked to confirm that you are covered by your home HEI for insurance purposes to undertake the research project, and also that you have appropriate approval from your HEI to allow the research project to take place.
If you are an ECR not currently affiliated with an HEI, please include appropriate insurance in the Budget section of the application form.
Application process
Introduction
SGSAH operates an online application system which is open from Thursday 15 August until Friday 1 November 2024 via the Programme's webpages .
Read these Guidelines thoroughly before applying, ensuring you are reading the most recent version. You should then contact your PhD supervisor (or former PhD supervisor if you are an ECR; see below in the 'Letter of Support from PhD Supervisor' section if this individual is not available) and proposed Host Institution as soon as possible to give them time to prepare their support documents.
It is the applicant's responsibility to ensure that you have all the necessary documents ready to upload to the application system.
Finding a Mentor and Host HEI
To make your application, you need to identify an academic mentor and a Host HEI.
Your Mentor will be the key point of contact at your Host HEI. They will be an academic member of staff, who has expertise in the environmental arts and humanities. They will initially speak to you about your proposal and - if there is a good fit between your research interests and their own, and there is capacity to support you at their HEI - they will support your application.
If you are successful, your Mentor will have regular meetings with you, and introduce you as relevant to other members of staff, PhD and ECR researchers, and invite you to e.g. research seminars, relevant events, workshops etc. It is anticipated that your Mentor will meet with you roughly every two weeks, but these meetings could take the form of seminars or workshops which involved other staff, PhD and ECR researchers, as well as one-to-one meetings.
The Host HEI (Higher Education Institution) will be the university or other institute at which your academic mentor is based, and at which you will be located during your research proposal. The Head of Department (or equivalent) must - if there is a good fit between you, your mentor, and your research proposal - write a letter of support for your application, which confirms you will be accepted as a visiting researcher to the HEI during your time as an EARTH scholarship holder. You can mention more than one HEI in your proposal, but you can only have one as the Host HEI.
In order to find a Mentor, look at details of the Clusters on the webpages for the EARTH Scholarships (nb each Cluster is comprised of several different HEIs): https://www.sgsah.ac.uk/prospective/earthscholarships-2025/#/clusters. Each Cluster has its own page, with details of its particular thematic orientation and links to various research centres, networks and groupings which you can follow to find details of individual members of staff.
If you're not sure who might be a good Mentor for you, you can email the Cluster Leads and Deputies (contact details are available on each of the Cluster pages), explaining your potential proposal briefly, and they can make some suggestions of contacts.
Once you have a contact, email them directly (we suggest being relatively formal, using their title and surname - e.g. 'Dear Professor Squires'), and explaining briefly your interest in applying for an EARTH scholarship (add a brief sentence explaining the programme and the url, just in case your mentor doesn't yet know of the programme). Explain your background and your initial ideas for your research proposal, and ask whether it might be possible to discuss this with them further. Do make it clear (in brief) why you might be interested in having them as a mentor (ie look for their staff page and their description of their research interests, publications and projects.
If the potential Mentor is interested in potentially supporting your application, they will explain how they'd like to take this forward (e.g. via an email discussion, an online meeting). Do make it clear to them what the timeline is for submission (they will need to ask their Head of Department or equivalent for a Letter of Support, which you must have for the application deadline).
Please note you can only have one Mentor, and one Host HEI to support you, and you cannot make multiple applications. If you do find more than one academic interested in supporting you (at one HEI or two), it is possible to name other academics and HEIs in your application - speak to your potential Mentor about how to handle this.
Application deadlines
Full application : The online application system will close at 12 noon GMT on Friday 1 November 2024 .
Late applications will only be considered where there is evidenced breakdown in SGSAH's operational systems and where such systemic failures have made submission by the deadline impossible. Please note that we will not accept late applications where there has been failure at the applicant's end (e.g. failure of internet connection). For this reason, we strongly advise applicants to complete the application process at least 48 hours in advance of the deadline.
The Online Application System
SGSAH uses an online application system, which you can access by clicking here or via the Programme's webpages .
You need to create an account on the system, using an email address (ideally an institutional email address) which you check regularly. Please ensure you check your spam or junk filters for any emails from the system.
U se the 'Save and Continue Editing' button as you go , in order not to lose your draft. Once you have completed each section, press 'Mark as Complete' (although you can still edit each section if you want to, until you submit the application).
When you have completed your application, please use the 'Submit' button. Once you have pressed this button you cannot edit it any further. You must do this by Friday 1 November 2024 (12pm GMT).
You should receive email confirmations from the system at the submission of the application.
Guidance on completing the application form
General notes on the application
Read these Guidelines thoroughly before you begin your application.
All aspects of the application must be written in English, including the supporting letters from PhD supervisors and the proposed Host Institution.
Be aware that the online application form will automatically cut off entries over the stated word limits.
Route
You are asked here to tick the route through which you are applying. As detailed in the Eligibility section above, you must be either a currently registered PhD or recently graduated Early Career Researcher (ECR) registered at or graduated from any non-UK university.
Personal details
This section asks you to provide your name and contact information. We will normally contact you by email so please ensure you use an address you check regularly, and which will be available to you at least until August 2023. The section also asks you for your nationality.
Date of Award of PhD
This section will only appear if you are an ECR.
Please input the date on which you received notification that your PhD would be awarded/has passed, not the date of a graduation ceremony or receipt of a certificate. As the programme launched in August 2024, ECRs must therefore have received notification of award of PhD by 1 October 2023 or later , unless you are applying for Exceptional Circumstances (see below), in which case notification of award will be from 1 October 2022 or later.
Home and Host Institutions
In this section, you are asked to give details of the HEI at which you are currently registered or from which you graduated. Please include a URL of your HEI's home page.
Title of your PhD
Please translate your PhD title into English if necessary.
Arts & Humanities Subject Areas
In this section, pick which Arts & Humanities subject area(s) your proposal fits into. You can choose more than one.
Research Project Host Institution
Choose from the dropdown list which HEI will host your research project. The HEI must be one of the SGSAH member HEIs, detailed in the Introduction.
Cluster Membership
Choose from the dropdown list which of the three Clusters you propose to be a member of. If your Host Institution is included within one of the three Clusters, you must choose that Cluster. For any research project at an HEI not included in one of the Clusters, please choose the Cluster most relevant to you, bearing in mind the section on the form on 'Cluster Membership, Cohort -Building, Training and Development'.
For more details on the Clusters, see the section above and at the Programme web pages.
Thematic Focus
Choose from the dropdown list which of the thematic foci your research proposal fits into. Please note that you can choose more than one foci , and that you can choose 'None' if your project does not relate to any of the foci.
Exceptional Circumstances for Extension to the 1-year period from date of award of PhD (300 words maximum)
This section will only appear if you are an ECR.
The date of award from the PhD can be extended to 2 years, if you have exceptional circumstances. These would include caring responsibilities and physical and mental health issues, particularly if exacerbated by COVID-19. If you are applying for exceptional circumstances, please briefly detail here your situation. Please note that this section will not be seen by the reviewers, and will be independently assessed.
Research Project Proposal Summary (100 words maximum)
This section should provide a summary of the proposed research project that will be comprehensible to non-specialists and suitable for PR and communication channels. It should be written in the 3 rd person. In it, you should state your home institution (where you are currently registered for or graduated from your PhD), and your proposed Host Institution.
Research Proposal (1000 words maximum)
How your research project will be structured (timeline; mix of virtual/in-person elements) What research you will undertake while based at your host institution The fit of your project to the host institution What outcomes you plan or anticipate from the research project Any additional organisations, institutions, networks or individuals you anticipate working with while based at your host institution How this work will fit with your broader PhD topic or post-doctoral research What benefits being based at your host institution will bring to you What benefits you will bring to your host institution
This section describes the details of your research project. It should include: What you anticipate the legacy of the research project will be
Note that proposals can be structured to further existing work being undertaken as a PhD or postdoctoral project, or be a discrete, standalone project which nonetheless furthers the knowledge base, networks and expertise of the researcher. The research project can also be structured as the researcher joining and furthering an existing project at the Host Institution. A range of outcomes and outputs are anticipated, depending on the nature of the proposed project. These could include planned or future publications, but they could also be knowledge exchange or impact-related activities, the creation or analysis of datasets, performances, exhibitions, the development of networks a range of partners (academic and external). It is not necessary to include a bibliography, although relevant brief in-text (ie Author-Date) references can be made.
Cluster Membership, Cohort-Building, Training and Development (300 words maximum)
Please detail in this section:
how your proposal fits your proposed Cluster
how you will benefit from and contribute to the programme cohort-building activities
what further training and development opportunities you anticipate developing from participating in the programme
Please ensure that you refer to the Cluster you chose from the dropdown list earlier in the form, and refer to the details of the Cluster on the programme webpages.
In addition to the overview of clusters, cohort-building, training and development activities mentioned above, please consider the training and development opportunities that will be available to you via your proposed Host Institution, as well as the events offered via SGSAH, including via our Discipline+ Catalysts and Knowledge Exchange (KE) Hubs:
Discipline+ Catalysts support the pursuit of knowledge and advancement of disciplines through regular methodological and thematic training at the leading edges of arts and humanities. Our Catalysts also drive cross- and interdisciplinary collaborations which support student-led events funded through Cohort Development Funding. Doctoral researchers must participate in at least one Catalyst event annually.
Knowledge Exchange (KE) Hubs SGSAH has three KE Hubs: Citizenship, Culture and Ethics Hub; Creative Economies Hub; and, Heritage Hub. Supported by key partners including the BBC, the V&A, the British Council and the Scottish Parliament, the Hubs deliver industry-focused events, and workrelated training within a UK and international context. Doctoral researchers must participate in one Hub event annually.
Further details of SGSAH training and events are available via our website.
Budget and Justification of Resources (300 words maximum)
In the first section of the form, please give a budget in £s sterling for your project. If a cost is not relevant, enter 0.
Travel: Cost travel from country to country, as well as any required internal travel. If you are starting from a different country from that in which your home HEI is located, this is allowable, but please explain this in the Justification of Resources. SGSAH is keen to encourage sustainable travel, and would like you to consider where feasible using alternative modes of transport to planes. In terms of travel we therefore do not expect you to choose the cheapest possible mode of transport if it is a plane, when there is a viable option via trains/buses/ferries. (In the final reporting process for the programme, you will be asked to calculate your carbon footprint for your research project, which SGSAH will offset). Please note SGSAH will only support you to travel once to Scotland, in a timeframe including the Cohort Programme.
Accommodation: Include costs for accommodation for the time you plan to spend at your Host Institution. If you are proposing to spend time in a particularly expensive location, please note this in your Justification of Resources to explain any high accommodation costs. Accommodation costs should represent value for money, but should be safe and within a distance to your Host Institution that makes daily travel feasible. Please note that SGSAH will provide accommodation for the 10-day Cohort Programme in April/May 2024, but depending on the arrival dates of the scholarship holder, can also cover accommodation costs for the location in which the rest of the scholarship will be held. Insurance: If you will not be covered by insurance from your home institution, please add in costs for insurance to cover your trip. Subsistence: Subsistence costs should be calculated on a daily basis, at the rate of £30 per day. Please multiply this day rate by the number of days (45 to 90) that you plan for your research project to last in-person). Include the Cohort Programme days within this calculation. Visa costs: Add in details for any visa costs for which you would be eligible. Please see the FAQs in order to establish what visa you will need, and whether there is an associated cost. Additional funding for particular needs (e.g. childcare, access requirements, relating to disability): if you would like to request an amount of additional funding to make the programme possible to you, please add the estimated amount here, and detail in the Justification of Resources what you are asking for. Financial contributions from elsewhere: If you have commitment from any other funding stream (e.g. via your home HEI) to support part of your research proposal, please add details here , and the amount will be automatically subtracted from your total requested. Please note that you are not required to provide any additional funding, and any applications with additional funding will not be viewed more favourably than those without. Bench fees: please note that SGSAH member HEIs have been asked to waive any bench fees or other charge for registration at their institution, and these are therefore not an eligible cost.
Justification of resources (300 words maximum)
Please provide an explanation of your budget, including details of the time period for the research project. Please detail how many days (from 45 to 90) you are planning your research project to last in-person (in order to justify the subsistence rate). If you are applying for additional costs for particular needs (e.g. childcare, access requirements, relating to disability) in order to make the programme accessible to you, please detail them in this section. Please note the number of days should include the Cohort Programme.
The average total cost to SGSAH of each research project is anticipated to be £8,500, with the possibility of a maximum of £10,000 per person where value for money is clearly evidenced.
Additional Document Uploads
You are additionally asked to upload three documents in PDF format. Please note all document uploads should be in English. CV (4 pages maximum): There is no specific format for the CV, but it could include (as relevant) academic achievements, publications and presentations, grant funding, service roles, and any relevant external activities.
Letter of support from your PhD supervisor (2 pages maximum): You should include a letter of support with an institutional header and contact details from your lead supervisor if you are a current PhD researcher, or from your lead supervisor of your PhD if you are an ECR. In either case, if it is not possible to get a reference from your lead supervisor, please ask another member of your supervisory team or the Head of Department or equivalent, and ask the replacement to detail in their letter (in brief) their relationship to you. The letter of support should be written in the form of a reference, and detail why you would particularly benefit from the proposed research project. If you are currently registered as a PhD researcher, your supervisor should confirm that they are in support of you undertaking the research project in addition to or alongside your PhD research. This support is particularly crucial if you are within the early stages of your PhD (ie Year 1), or the final stages (ie writing up). If you have completed your PhD, please ask your supervisor to confirm the date of award. Note that it is the applicant's responsibility to upload the letter, not the supervisor.
Letter of support from your proposed Host Institution (2 pages maximum): You should include a letter of support with an institutional header and contact details from the Head of Department or equivalent in the proposed institution (this can be co-written with the member(s) of staff with whom you intend to work). The individual writing the letter should have an organisational position of responsibility which enables them to confirm in the letter that the Host Institution supports your application and will be able to host you, including arrangements for registration and as appropriate, office space and access to facilities. The letter should detail in what ways your proposed research project is a good fit to the Host Institution, include a lead mentor who will be your point of contact and will oversee your time while on the research project, and how the expertise of the mentor will support your research. The letter could also detail the broader research environment that will be offered to you, including additional members of staff and PhD/ECR researchers with whom you will work, any activities and groups with which you'll be involved (e.g. seminar series, reading groups, training activities), and the opportunities that w ill be available to you while you're undertaking the project. The letter must also confirm that any bench or registration fee associated with registering with the Host Institution will be waived. Note that it is the applicant's responsibility to upload the letter, not the Host Institution.
Equal Opportunities Monitoring Form
This part of the form asks for standard demographic data. Although this section of the form is compulsory, for most sections you are able to choose the option 'Prefer not to say', although it is useful to SGSAH to be able to monitor the diversity of applicants.
Please note that this information will remain confidential and will not be shared with reviewers.
Assessment Criteria
In order to determine which proposals will be funded, reviewers will be asked to assess the quality of each proposal, its fit to the proposed Host Institution , the proposal's potential fit and contribution to Cluster membership, and cohort-building, training and development activities, and value for money.
Marks are organised into broad bands A-D. Reviewers are asked to allocate precise marks within each band. Total marks available for award are 25.
The assessment criteria are detailed below, in order to help applicants further understand what is required of proposals.
As detailed above, the programme particularly welcomes applications from countries in the Global South and aligning with the Scottish Government's International Development Fund and its priority countries including Rwanda, Zambia, Pakistan, Malawi and India. After the assessment of individual applications and during a final ranking meeting, reviewers will seek to have a balance of successful awardees from different demographics, geographies, across the range of environmental arts and humanities areas, and spread across the Clusters.
The reviewers for the programme will be a mix of UK and international academics (including from the programme Clusters), and those with relevant expertise from external organisations.
Quality of Proposal (10 marks)
The reviewers for the programme will be a mix of UK and international academics (including from the programme Clusters), and those with relevant expertise from... | Quality of Proposal (10 marks): A — Mark: 10 9 8; Description: An exceptional proposal in all of its components. The proposed research project is cogent, a comprehensive awareness of the research context is demonstrated, and the proposal demonstrates an extremely clear plan that will contribute to the p rogramme's overall aim to promote the role and interventions of the environmental arts and humanities, and the arts and cultural sector, in addressing the climate emergency, and their capacity for interdisciplinary research within STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, the Arts, and Mathematics) contexts. The proposal demonstrates significant potential to build long-term relationships between partners and stakeholders, by developing networks and encouraging openness in knowledge creation to enhance the quality and reach of research and scholarship. The research project is feasible within its proposed timescale. The proposed outcomes/outputs are evident, viable and demonstrate clear benefit to relevant audiences and stakeholders. The proposal clearly articulates how the research project will benefit the applicant, including in ongoing career terms (which can include careers outside of academia). There is full support from the PhD supervisor articulated in their Letter of Support. The proposal is compelling.
The reviewers for the programme will be a mix of UK and international academics (including from the programme Clusters), and those with relevant expertise from... | Quality of Proposal (10 marks): B — Mark: 7 6 5; Description: A strong proposal in the majority of its components. The proposed research project is comprehensible, a strong awareness of the research context is demonstrated, and the proposal demonstrates a clear plan that will
The reviewers for the programme will be a mix of UK and international academics (including from the programme Clusters), and those with relevant expertise from... | Quality of Proposal (10 marks): contribute to the programme's overall aim to promote the role and interventions of the environmental arts and humanities, and the arts and cultural sector, in addressing the climate emergency, and their capacity for interdisciplinary research within STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, the Arts, and Mathematics) contexts. The proposal demonstrates potential to build long-term relationships between partners and stakeholders, by developing networks and encouraging openness in knowledge creation to enhance the quality and reach of research and scholarship. The research project is likely to be feasible within its proposed timescale. The proposed outcomes/outputs are articulated and make a case for benefit to relevant audiences and stakeholders. The proposal articulates how the research project will benefit the applicant, including in ongoing career terms (which can include careers outside of academia). There is good support from the PhD supervisor articulated in their Letter of Support. A good case is made for the proposal.
The reviewers for the programme will be a mix of UK and international academics (including from the programme Clusters), and those with relevant expertise from... | Quality of Proposal (10 marks): C | 4 3 2 | A solid proposal in the majority of its components. The proposed research project demonstrates some awareness of the research context, alongside a sense of a plan that will contribute to the programme's overall aim overall aim to promote the role and interventions of the environmental arts and humanities, and the arts and cultural sector, in addressing the climate emergency, and their capacity for interdisciplinary research within STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, the Arts, and Mathematics) contexts. The proposal demonstrates some potential to build long-term relationships between partners and stakeholders, by developing networks and encouraging openness in knowledge creation to enhance the quality and reach of research and scholarship. The research project may be feasible within its proposed timescale. The proposed outcomes/outputs are identified. The proposal articulates how the research project will benefit the applicant, including in ongoing career terms (which can include careers outside of academia). There is partial support from the PhD supervisor articulated in their Letter of Support.
The reviewers for the programme will be a mix of UK and international academics (including from the programme Clusters), and those with relevant expertise from... | Quality of Proposal (10 marks): D | 1 0 | A proposal with serious shortcomings in one or more of its aspects.
Fit to Host Institution (5 marks)
The reviewers for the programme will be a mix of UK and international academics (including from the programme Clusters), and those with relevant expertise from... | Fit to Host Institution (5 marks): A — Mark: 5 4; Description: The arrangements for the Host Institution and Mentor represent an optimal fit with the applicant and their proposed research project. There is a clear plan for mentoring and hosting the applicant, and a very evident research environment into which the applicant will be welcomed, and will participate. There is demonstrable 'added value' for the research project to be held at the Host Institution, and the proposal will bring clear benefits to the Host Institution as well as to the applicant. The proposal has the clear support of the Host Institution. The Host Institution Letter of Support is in complete alignment with the research proposal.
The reviewers for the programme will be a mix of UK and international academics (including from the programme Clusters), and those with relevant expertise from... | Fit to Host Institution (5 marks): B — Mark: 3 2; Description: The arrangements for the Host Institution and Mentor represent a strong fit with the applicant and their proposed research project. There is a plan for mentoring and hosting the applicant, and a clear research environment into which the applicant will be welcomed, and will participate. There is 'added value' for the research project to be held at the Host Institution, and the proposal will bring benefits to the Host Institution as well as to the applicant. The proposal has the support of the Host Institution. The Host Institution Letter of Support is in good alignment with the research proposal.
The reviewers for the programme will be a mix of UK and international academics (including from the programme Clusters), and those with relevant expertise from... | Fit to Host Institution (5 marks): C — Mark: 1; Description: The arrangements for the Host Institution and Mentor represent a partial fit with the applicant and their proposed research project, with some sense of a plan for mentoring and hosting the applicant, and a research environment into which the applicant will fit. There is some evidence of 'added value' for the research project to be held at the Host Institution, and some indication of mutual benefit between the Host Institution and the applicant. The proposal has adequate support from the Host Institution, and the Host Institution Letter of Support is broadly in alignment with the research proposal.
The reviewers for the programme will be a mix of UK and international academics (including from the programme Clusters), and those with relevant expertise from... | Fit to Host Institution (5 marks): D — Mark: 0; Description: There is not a good fit between the Host Institution and Mentor the applicant and their proposed research project. There is not a good case made for the 'added value' of the research project. The proposal does not have sufficient support from the Host Institution, as indicated in the Letter of Support.
Potential fit and contribution to Cluster membership, and cohort-building, training and development activities (5 marks)
The reviewers for the programme will be a mix of UK and international academics (including from the programme Clusters), and those with relevant expertise from... | Potential fit and contribution to Cluster membership, and cohort-building, train: A — Mark: 5 4; Description: There is clear evidence of how the applicant will benefit from and contribute to the programme 's cohort building activities. There is a strong and evidenced alignment to the proposed Cluster membership. The applicant has also strongly demonstrated what further training and development opportunities they anticipate developing through participation in the programme , including in relation to SGSAH's existing training and development opportunities and platforms.
The reviewers for the programme will be a mix of UK and international academics (including from the programme Clusters), and those with relevant expertise from... | Potential fit and contribution to Cluster membership, and cohort-building, train: B — Mark: 3 2; Description: There is evidence of how the applicant will benefit from and contribute to the programme 's cohort building activities. There is a good alignment to the proposed Cluster membership. The applicant has also demonstrated what further training and development opportunities they anticipate developing through participation in the programme , including in relation to SGSAH's existing training and development opportunities and platforms.
The reviewers for the programme will be a mix of UK and international academics (including from the programme Clusters), and those with relevant expertise from... | Potential fit and contribution to Cluster membership, and cohort-building, train: C — Mark: 1; Description: There is some sense of how the applicant will benefit from and contribute to the programme 's cohort building activities. There is some sense of alignment to the proposed Cluster membership. The applicant has also given some indication of what further training and development opportunities they anticipate developing through participation in the programme.
The reviewers for the programme will be a mix of UK and international academics (including from the programme Clusters), and those with relevant expertise from... | Potential fit and contribution to Cluster membership, and cohort-building, train: D — Mark: 0; Description: There is some little to no sense of how the applicant will benefit from and contribute to the programme 's cohort building activities , or alignment with the proposed Cluster. The applicant has also given little or no indication of what further training and development opportunities they anticipate developing through participation in the programme.
Value for money (5 marks)
The reviewers for the programme will be a mix of UK and international academics (including from the programme Clusters), and those with relevant expertise from... | Value for money (5 marks): A — Mark: 5 4; Description: The budget is very effectively and clearly constructed, and relates completely to the research proposal. The applicant provides a strong rationale for their budget within the Justification of Resources, including taking advantage where appropriate and relevant of additional costs for particular needs (e.g. childcare, access requirements, relating to disability). For any budget over the stated average cost of £8,500 in total, very clear evidence is provided for the additional cost (up to a maximum of £10,000).
The reviewers for the programme will be a mix of UK and international academics (including from the programme Clusters), and those with relevant expertise from... | Value for money (5 marks): Please note that any financial contribution from elsewhere should not be factored into scoring.
The reviewers for the programme will be a mix of UK and international academics (including from the programme Clusters), and those with relevant expertise from... | Value for money (5 marks): B | 3 2 | The budget is effectively constructed, and relates well to the research proposal. The applicant provides a good rationale for their budget within the Justification of Resources, including taking advantage where appropriate and relevant of additional costs for particular needs (e.g. childcare, access requirements, relating to disability). For any budget over the stated average cost of £8,500 in total, evidence is provided for the additional cost (up to a maximum of £10,000). Please note that any financial contribution from elsewhere should not be factored into scoring.
The reviewers for the programme will be a mix of UK and international academics (including from the programme Clusters), and those with relevant expertise from... | Value for money (5 marks): C | 1 | The budget is solidly constructed. The applicant provides some rationale for their budget within the Justification of Resources. For any budget over the stated average cost of £8,500 in total, some evidence is provided for the additional cost (up to a maximum of £10,000). Please note that any financial contribution from elsewhere should not be factored into scoring.
The reviewers for the programme will be a mix of UK and international academics (including from the programme Clusters), and those with relevant expertise from... | Value for money (5 marks): D | 0 | The budget is poorly constructed, with little rationale provided for the budget within the Justification of Resources. Please note that any financial contribution from elsewhere should not be factored into scoring.
