SOURCE_URL: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Ex6kyBDdkMwTGpuDmuNcpEjjiVCdioGZ/view
TITLE: Quizzing club
FETCHED: 2025-02-21
FOUND_ON: http://vnit.ac.in/student-activity-clubs-vnit
---
Document: Quizzing club (dated 2025-02-21)
VNIT-ACS International Student Chapter organizes a oneday quiz competition entitled ' Quiz de Chimie 2024 ' in association with VNIT Quiz Club
On the auspicious occasion of 163 rd birth anniversary of Acharya Prafulla Chandra Ray ( Father of Indian Chemistry ), VNIT-American Chemical Society (ACS) International Student Chapter organizes its first event one-day Chemistry quiz competition entitled ' Quiz de Chimie 2024 ' on 10 th of August, 2024. This event was organized by the department of Chemistry, VNIT Nagpur under American Chemical Society ( ACS ) international student chapter program and in association with the VNIT Quiz club. Participants included post graduate level students from different colleges and universities in and around Nagpur, such as RTM Nagpur University, G H Raisoni University, Shivaji Science College Amaravati, VNIT Nagpur, Hislop College Nagpur, etc.
Chief guest Dr. D. G. Garway , Managing Director Anacon Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. was felicitated by the Director VNIT. Guest of honor Director VNIT Dr. P. L. Patel was felicitated by Dr. S. K. Ghosh (HoD, Chemistry). Special guest Dr. K. L. Wasewar (HoD, Chemical Engineering, VNIT) was felicitated by the convener of the event Dr. S. Halder. Quiz master of the event Dr. R. Agarwal as well as the judges' panel Dr. A. Banerjee and Dr. U. R. Pratap were felicitated by the chief guest Dr. Garway.
Dr. P. L. Patel in his address mentioned the importance of Chemistry to society, as well as the contribution of Prof. Ray as the pioneer of modern Indian Chemistry and establishment of the Indian Chemical Society. He also highlighted the importance of ACS-International student chapter for the benefit of the participants and members.
Dr. D. G. Garway spoke about the effect of Electromagnetic Radiation from Electronics on Mental and Physical Growth.
Dr. Krishna Raghav Chaturvedi, Outreach Manager of American Chemical Society, addressed the students in online mode and discussed various schemes of ACS for their professional development.
The event consisted of three preliminary rounds containing 17 teams of two participants each, followed by a semi-final round containing of 8 teams and the final round with four teams. Team VNIT was the winner, the team Hislop college was the first runner up and team RTMNU was the second runner up of the event. All the winners and other participants were awarded certificates by Dr. S. S. Umare (special guest) and the judges.
VNIT-ACS international student chapter was established on May, 2024 with the objective to promote the chemical sciences among the youth in and around Nagpur region. VNIT-ACS international student chapter consists of Mr. Jyoti Swarup Thakur, Ms. Shikha Singh, Mr. Gaurav Deolikar, Mr. Swapnil Sarkar, Ms. Surbhi Raut, Mr. Khaten Riyang Ms. Shrestha Banerjee, Mr. Santosh K. Senapati, Mr. Supratim Halder with the faculty advisor Dr. Sandipan Halder.
