SOURCE_URL: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1cpcKwVBBf5rzSoDlSS8hSk0umfxB3a_W/view
TITLE: Foundation Day 2025
FETCHED: 2025-11-13
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/section/uba
---
Document: Foundation Day 2025 (dated 2025-11-13)
'11 th Foundation Day Celebration of UBA' November 11, 2025
Nagpur, November 11, 2025 11 th Foundation Day of UBA at VNIT
The Regional Coordinating Institute (RCI), Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT), Nagpur, marked the celebration of the ' 11th Foundation Day of Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) on November 11, 2025, reaffirming its leadership in participatory rural development and academic-social collaboration.
The event featured distinguished guest Dr. Urmila Ravindra Kshirsagar, Director, Niramay Bahu Udeshiye Seva Sanstha, who enlightened the audience with her extensive experience supporting rural women across 50 villages during her 25 years of dedicated social service in Nagpur. Her session fostered deep student engagement, exploring the interconnectedness of happiness, sorrow, satisfaction, peace, and pleasure, while illustrating how nature, nurture, and culture shape personal and communal growth. Dr. Kshirsagar motivated students to explore various ways to connect rural communities, extend their institutional knowledge and empathy, underlining UBA's mission to transform rural India through collaborative contributions and holistic development.
Dr. Bhooshan Rajpathak, Regional UBA-VNIT Coordinator, introduced the pioneering 'Social Internship' program , a framework actively linking students from 110 Participating Institutes across Bhandara, Gondia, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Wardha, and Nagpur with grassroots NGOs. This internship spans from 1 to 6 weeks, confers academic credits in harmony with the New Education Policy, and will initially select 50 students via an interactive workshop on January 12, 2026, at VNIT. The 'Social Internship' will encoura ge participants to serve in health camps, education initiatives, agriculture, entrepreneurship, creative media, technical support, and community empowerment, facilitating hands-on learnings and social impacts.
The Foundation Day celebrations underscored VNIT's pivotal role as an RCI under UBA, demonstrating how academia, NGOs, and social leaders can collaborate for inclusive, sustainable rural progress. The program was chaired by Dr. Ratnesh Kumar (Dean, SW, VNIT), VNIT's UBA team - Dr. Bhooshan Rajpathak (RCI Coordinator) and Dr. Praveen Sawarkar (PI Coordinator) while the event was attended by Mr. Amit Bhure (UBA Fellow), RCI membersDr. Sushma Giripunje, Dr. Sheetal Raut, Dr. Maithili Paikane, Dr. Ramsha Karampur, Dr. Vishnu Pratap Singh and Mrs. Vijaya Deshmukh. Dr. Vipin Kamble and Dr. Uday Bhosale were present from the PI side. The event was compered by Dr. Meenal Surawar (RCI Member), with the vote of thanks delivered by Dr. Praveen Sawarkar (PI Coordinator).
VNIT re affirms its commitment to 'Transforming Rural India through Participatory Development,' fostering leadership, innovation, and collective progress in the Nagpur region
