SOURCE_URL: https://drive.google.com/file/d/12I__zeaUFJeyrYvrmqANMJ16Ot9RpAr2/view
TITLE: M.Tech Institute Spot Round (ISR) – II Admission Brochure
FETCHED: 2026-08-18
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/section/academics/admission
---
Document: M.Tech Institute Spot Round (ISR) – II Admission Brochure (dated 2026-08-18)
VISVESVARAYA NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, NAGPUR-440010
M.Tech Admissions-Institute Spot Round (ISR-2026)
Admission Procedure and Schedule for Institutional Round-II
Admissions to M.Tech under Institute Spot Round-II is only for the Provisional Vacant Seats available (Details on the Institute Website).
The admissions are scheduled on Tuesday, 25 th August 2026
Admissions are carried for Group A (GATE qualified) and Group B (Non-GATE) candidates only.
Aspiring candidates are required to fill in the Google form (https://forms.gle/Vnr4x6E2reaTtYsT9).
For Eligibility criteria for admission to various M. Tech. Programs, refer CCMT-2026 website.
Group B (Non-GATE) candidates are required to appear for the Written Test (Schedule in Table 1)
(Candidates need to report 01 hour before the written test at the respective departments)
Separate Merit Lists will be prepared (as per CCMT norms) for the following categories:
Open (General)
ii) SC
iii) ST
iv) OBC-NCL
vi) EWS
PwD
The candidate is required to pay a Non-Refundable Application fee of Rs 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred Only) through VNIT's payment portal (Link: https://pay.vnit.ac.in/home ).
The candidate is required to pay a Non-Refundable Application fee of Rs 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred Only) through VNIT's payment portal (Link: https://pay.vnit.ac.in/home ). | Admission Procedure and Schedule for Institutional Round-II: Applied Mechanics — M.Tech Program: Structural Dynamics & Earthquake Engineering Forensic Structural Engineering; Time: 10.00 AM to 11.00 AM; Venue: Civil Engineering
The candidate is required to pay a Non-Refundable Application fee of Rs 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred Only) through VNIT's payment portal (Link: https://pay.vnit.ac.in/home ). | Admission Procedure and Schedule for Institutional Round-II: Civil Engineering — M.Tech Program: Environmental Engineering Transportation Engineering Water Resources Engineering Geotechnical Engineering; Time: 10.00 AM to 11.00 AM; Venue: Civil Engineering
The candidate is required to pay a Non-Refundable Application fee of Rs 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred Only) through VNIT's payment portal (Link: https://pay.vnit.ac.in/home ). | Admission Procedure and Schedule for Institutional Round-II: Architecture and Planning — M.Tech Program: Urban Planning; Time: 11.30 AM to 12.30 PM; Venue: Architecture and Planning
The candidate is required to pay a Non-Refundable Application fee of Rs 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred Only) through VNIT's payment portal (Link: https://pay.vnit.ac.in/home ). | Admission Procedure and Schedule for Institutional Round-II: Chemical Engineering — M.Tech Program: Chemical Engineering; Time: 10.30 AM to 11.30 AM; Venue: Chemical Engineering
The candidate is required to pay a Non-Refundable Application fee of Rs 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred Only) through VNIT's payment portal (Link: https://pay.vnit.ac.in/home ). | Admission Procedure and Schedule for Institutional Round-II: Electronics & Communication Engineering — M.Tech Program: Communication system Engineering; Time: 10.30 AM to 11.30 AM; Venue: Electronics & Communication Engineering
The candidate is required to pay a Non-Refundable Application fee of Rs 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred Only) through VNIT's payment portal (Link: https://pay.vnit.ac.in/home ). | Admission Procedure and Schedule for Institutional Round-II: Electrical Engineering — M.Tech Program: Power & Energy Systems Power Electronics and Drives; Time: 10.00 AM to 11.00 AM; Venue: Electrical Engineering
The candidate is required to pay a Non-Refundable Application fee of Rs 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred Only) through VNIT's payment portal (Link: https://pay.vnit.ac.in/home ). | Admission Procedure and Schedule for Institutional Round-II: Mechanical Engineering — M.Tech Program: Production and Industrial Engineering Thermal Engineering CAD-CAM; Time: 10.00 AM to 11.00 AM; Venue: Mechanical Engineering
The candidate is required to pay a Non-Refundable Application fee of Rs 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred Only) through VNIT's payment portal (Link: https://pay.vnit.ac.in/home ). | Admission Procedure and Schedule for Institutional Round-II: Interdisciplinary Board — M.Tech Program: Biomedical Engineering; Time: 11.30 AM to 12.30 PM; Venue: Mechanical Engineering
The candidate is required to pay a Non-Refundable Application fee of Rs 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred Only) through VNIT's payment portal (Link: https://pay.vnit.ac.in/home ). | Admission Procedure and Schedule for Institutional Round-II: Metallurgical and Materials Engineering — M.Tech Program: Materials Engineering Process Metallurgy; Time: 10.30 AM to 11.30 AM; Venue: Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
The candidate is required to pay a Non-Refundable Application fee of Rs 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred Only) through VNIT's payment portal (Link: https://pay.vnit.ac.in/home ). | Admission Procedure and Schedule for Institutional Round-II: Mining Engineering — M.Tech Program: Excavation and Tunnel Engineering; Time: 11.30 AM to 12.30 PM; Venue: Mining Engineering
The candidate is required to pay a Non-Refundable Application fee of Rs 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred Only) through VNIT's payment portal (Link: https://pay.vnit.ac.in/home ). | Admission Procedure and Schedule for Institutional Round-II: PROVISIONAL MERIT LIST WILL BE DISPLAYED AT 1:30 PM — M.Tech Program: PROVISIONAL MERIT LIST WILL BE DISPLAYED AT 1:30 PM; Time: PROVISIONAL MERIT LIST WILL BE DISPLAYED AT 1:30 PM; Venue: PROVISIONAL MERIT LIST WILL BE DISPLAYED AT 1:30 PM
Table 1: Schedule for Written Test (Date: Tuesday, 25 th August 2026)
Instructions to Candidates Appearing for Written Test
Without prejudice to criminal action/debarment from examination wherever necessary, the candidature will be summarily cancelled at any stage of the Institute Spot Round in respect of candidates who are found to have indulged in any of the following:
In possession of mobile phone & accessories, other electronic gadgets and books/guides, etc., within the premises of the examination hall, whether in use or in switched-off mode.
Use of unfair means in the examination hall.
Obtaining support for his/her candidature by any means.
Impersonate/Procuring impersonation by any person .
Submitting fabricated documents or documents which have been tampered with.
Making statements that are incorrect or false or suppressing material information.
Resorting to any other irregular or improper means in connection with his/her candidature for the examination.
Misbehaving in any other manner in the examination hall with the Supervisor, Invigilator, or Institute authorities/Examination Personal.
Intimidating or causing harm to the staff employed by the Department/Institute for the conduct of examination.
Not fulfilling the eligibility condition mentioned in the Advertisement.
Any other ground which the Institute authorities consider to be sufficient cause.
Rules for Breaking the tie in Written Exam (Group B)
Merit for seat allotment will be prepared based on the written test score. In case of the same score, to resolve and determine inter-se-merit of candidates, following criteria will be used in the stated order:
In the unlikely event of their written test score being the same, preference will be given based on the final semester CGPA of the qualifying degree. In case, if the result is awaited, the CGPA of the previous semester for which document is available will be considered.
In the highly unlikely event of candidates having the same written test score and CGPA of the qualifying degree, percentage of Class 12/Diploma will be considered.
In the highly unlikely event of candidates having the same written test score, CGPA of the qualifying degree and percentage of Class 12/Diploma, the percentage obtained in Class 10 will be considered.
IMPORTANT NOTE
Reserved category seats will be allotted to the candidates belonging to that particular category only.
One Set of Self-attested copies of the following documents/certificates to be submitted along with the Application form before the Written Test for Admission.
Proof for Date of Birth (10 th /12 th standard mark sheet or if 10th/12th standard mark sheet does not have the date of birth, then birth certificate).
Government issued photo ID proof.
GATE scorecard (Not compulsory). If available, it should be a valid GATE score for the year 2024/2025/2026.
Mark sheets (of all semesters) of the Qualifying Examination.
Qualifying Examination Degree Certificate/Provisional certificate.
Caste Certificate, as applicable for reserved category. OBC-NCL & EWS Certificate to be in the Central Format issued on or after 1st April 2026.
For Maharashtra State reserved category candidates, a caste validity certificate is essential from the competent authority.
If the caste certificate application is pending and you have yet to receive the caste certificate, then the undertaking as given in Annexure-III is to be submitted.
If the EWS certificate application is pending and you have yet to receive the EWS certificate, then the undertaking as given in Annexure-IV is to be submitted.
If the category certificate, as claimed is not available and unable to produce on the admission date, an undertaking given in Annexure-V for category change to be submitted.
Disability certificate, if applied under PwD category along with Annexure-VI.
Undertaking as given in Annexure-VII if the candidate does not have any relevant documents like Degree certificate/Provisional Degree certificate, Course completion certificate, etc.
Copy of Application fee receipt (Rs 500 /-).
VISVESVARAYA NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, NAGPUR-440010
M.Tech Admissions Institute Spot Round-II
Date: Tuesday, 25 th August 2026
Venue: Class Room Complex (CRC), VNIT Nagpur
Admission Process: 3:00 PM onwards (As per the Merit List)
Note: No Admission Process will continue after 6:00 PM
Note: No Admission Process will continue after 6:00 PM | M.Tech Admissions Institute Spot Round-II: Applied Mechanics Civil Engineering Architecture and Planning Mining Engineering — Reporting Class Room: CRC 6-1; Name of M.Tech Programs: Structural Dynamics & Earthquake Engineering Forensic Structural Engineering Environmental Engineering Geotechnical Engineering Transportation Engineering Water Resources Engineering Urban Planning Excavation and Tunnel Engineering
Note: No Admission Process will continue after 6:00 PM | M.Tech Admissions Institute Spot Round-II: Electrical Engineering Mechanical Engineering — Reporting Class Room: CRC 6-2; Name of M.Tech Programs: Power & Energy Systems Power Electronics and Drives Production and Industrial Engineering Thermal Engineering CAD-CAM Biomedical Engineering
Note: No Admission Process will continue after 6:00 PM | M.Tech Admissions Institute Spot Round-II: Electronics and Communication Engineering — Reporting Class Room: CRC 6-3; Name of M.Tech Programs: Communication System Engineering
Note: No Admission Process will continue after 6:00 PM | M.Tech Admissions Institute Spot Round-II: Metallurgical and Materials Engineering Chemical Engineering — Reporting Class Room: CRC 6-4; Name of M.Tech Programs: Materials Engineering Process Metallurgy Chemical Engineering
Fees to be paid at the time of admission round:
Note: No Admission Process will continue after 6:00 PM | Fees to be paid at the time of admission round: GEN/OBC-NCL/ EWS/Sponsored — Fees (Rs): 54125/-; Remarks: 1. This fee includes a one-time fee of Rs. 12900 and per semester fee of Rs. 41225/- 2. This amount excludes hostel and mess fees.
Note: No Admission Process will continue after 6:00 PM | Fees to be paid at the time of admission round: SC/ ST/PwD — Fees (Rs): 19125/-; Remarks: 1. This fee includes a one-time fee of Rs. 12900 and per semester fee of Rs. 6225/- 2. This amount excludes hostel and mess fees.
Candidates reporting for admission must bring with them a DD (Demand Draft) for the above amount in favor of ' Director, VNIT, Nagpur ' , payable at Nagpur. No CASH/CHEQUES is accepted. Provision of ONLINE Payment is available.
Note: The library deposit is taken at the Program's entry year and is refundable upon completion. Candidates are required to carry 03 copies of a PP-size colored photograph.
