SOURCE_URL: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-w1qLvTMqipr5L5jcRip09MleTdmY6Ec/view
TITLE: IPR Policy
FETCHED: 2026-05-14
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/section/rnc/ipr-innovation
---
Document: IPR Policy (dated 2026-05-14)
IP Policy, Guidelines and Forms
VISVESVARAYA NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY SOUTH AMBAZARI ROAD, NAGPUR, 440010
PL
715/26
INDEX
INDEX: Topic: Preamble — Page No.: 3
INDEX: Topic: Scope of IPR Guidelines — Page No.: 4
INDEX: Topic: Generic Position — Page No.: 5
INDEX: Topic: Process for Disclosures and Patenting — Page No.: 5
INDEX: Topic: Flowchart for Patenting Process — Page No.: 7
INDEX: Topic: Ownership — Page No.: 8
INDEX: Topic: IP generated from research conducted by utilizing resources of VNIT — Page No.: 7
INDEX: Topic: IP generated from research conducted in collaboration with external partners — Page No.: 7
INDEX: Topic: IP Licensing and Agreements — Page No.: 7
INDEX: Topic: Commercial Research outputs generated as a result of utilization of resources of VNIT — Page No.: 9
INDEX: Topic: Research outputs generated in collaboration with external partners — Page No.: 9
INDEX: Topic: Limitation of Liability — Page No.: 9
INDEX: Topic: Sharing of Costs with regard to IP protection — Page No.: 9
INDEX: Topic: Waiver of IP rights by VNIT — Page No.: 10
INDEX: Topic: IP Renewal — Page No.: 10
INDEX: Topic: Action against infringement — Page No.: 10
INDEX: Topic: Use of VNIT's IP Resources — Page No.: 10
INDEX: Topic: Infringements, Damages, Liability and Indemnity Insurance — Page No.: 11
INDEX: Topic: Conflict of Interest — Page No.: 11
INDEX: Topic: Dispute Resolution — Page No.: 11
INDEX: Topic: Jurisdiction — Page No.: 11
INDEX: Topic: Powers to Amend IP policy — Page No.: 11
INDEX: Topic: Appendix A - Definitions — Page No.: 13
INDEX: Topic: Appendix B - The Inventions related IP Policy — Page No.: 15
INDEX: Topic: Appendix C - Issues related to collaborations with external agencies, Commercial Research Outputs, IP licensing, License exemptions, Technology Transfer — Page No.: 17
INDEX: Topic: Appendix D - Important considerations for Researchers — Page No.: 21
INDEX: Topic: Appendix E - The Expressions related IP Policy — Page No.: 25
INDEX: Topic: Annexure 1 - Defining parties concerned and significant usage — Page No.: 27
INDEX: Topic: Annexure 2 - Disclosure, Assessment and Protection — Page No.: 28
INDEX: Topic: Annexure 3 - Revenue Sharing — Page No.: 29
INDEX: Topic: Annexure 4 - Role of Dean (R&C) office — Page No.: 30
INDEX: Topic: Annexure 5 - Contracts and Agreements — Page No.: 31
INDEX: Topic: Annexure 6 - Conflict of Interest — Page No.: 32
INDEX: Topic: Undertaking to be signed by all academic and technical staff joining VNIT Nagpur — Page No.: 33
INDEX: Topic: Undertaking by a person engaged by / associated with the Institute temporarily for a short-term period — Page No.: 34
INDEX: Topic: Invention Disclosure Form — Page No.: 35
INDEX: Topic: Format : Memorandum of Understanding — Page No.: 39
INDEX: Topic: Format : Mutual Non-disclosure Agreement — Page No.: 40
INDEX: Topic: Format : Patent / Software License Agreement — Page No.: 44 46
INDEX: Topic: Format : Research Agreement Undertaking to be signed by members of IP Cell — Page No.: 50
1.0 Preamble
Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (hereinafter referred to as VNIT or Institute) is an educational and research Institute of national importance established under NIT Act 2007, with a vision, "to contribute effectively to the national and international endeavor of producing quality human resource of world class standard by developing a sustainable technical education system, to meet the changing technological needs of the country and the world incorporating relevant social concerns and to build an environment to create and propagate innovative technologies for the economic developmentof the Nation."
Mission of the Institute is, "to achieve high standards of excellence in generating and propagating knowledge in science, engineering and allied disciplines. VNIT is committed to providing an education that combines rigorous academics with joy of discovery. The Institute encourages its community to engage in a dialogue with society to be able to effectively contribute for the betterment of humankind".
Considering ever-increasing economic and strategic importance of Innovations, knowledgebase, Intellectual Property (IP) and technology development, it is of important to formulate an IP policy and create an ecosystem, which would encourage researchers to strengthen IP portfolio of the Institute, and to enhance translational research for the benefit of society and country as a whole. In the last few years, a number of new initiatives and research projects have been executed by the faculty with enhanced research and development outputs. In view of the experience obtained during this period, in commercialization, incubation, international collaboration, distance/online education and quality improvement courses and student related issues, it was decided to formulate an Institutional IP policy, which can be updated and modified as and when required.
VNIT acknowledges the role of numerous stakeholders in the creation of its Intellectual Property (IP), namely the government, public, researchers, faculty, staff, postdoctoral fellows, research students, postgraduate and graduate students, guest researchers, sponsors, technology transfer units, startups, and the national IP offices. Being a public educational institute, interests of the various stakeholders have been attempted to be taken care of.
VNIT recognizes the importance of innovations and assists in translating them into products, processes and services for both commercial benefits and achieve the widest public good. The features of this IP Policy aim to meet such needs and enable VNIT to achieve its vision. VNITs IP policy is designed to identify, protect and leverage the bouquet of IPs that is generated from research, patents, copyrights, design rights and trademarks amongst others, including joint R&D with external agencies/industry, that serve the purpose of knowledge diffusion and commercialization.
The main text of this document describes the process for IP filing and the generic position of VNIT. Multiple Appendix sections describe different aspects of IP policy in detail. Appendix A defines different terms used in the document. Appendix B mentions about inventions related IP policy. Appendix C describes institute's position with respect to issues related to collaborations with external agencies, Commercial Research Outputs, IP licensing, License exemptions, Technology Transfer etc. Appendix D describes important considerations for researchers related to patent, design, layout, trademark, bio diversity, models, computer software and related rights. Appendix E mentions about Expressions related IP policy and ownership exemptions.
Intellectual Property (IP) Policy
Various forms are also given that explain in detail the sub-processes, various situations and required documentation have been included as part of the implementation of this IP policy. This IP policy can be reviewed and updated periodically by the committee appointed by the Director, VNIT Nagpur, as and when required.
The objectives of the IPR policy are as follows:
To provide a framework to foster innovation and creativity in the areas of technology, sciences, and humanities by nurturing new ideas and research, in an ethical environment.
ii) To protect intellectual property (IP) rights generated by faculty/personnel, students, and staff of VNIT, by translating their creative and innovative work into IP rights.
iii) To lay down an efficient, fair, and transparent administrative process for ownership control and assignment of IP rights and sharing of revenues generated by IP, created and owned by VNIT. Additionally, in cases of government funded research, the inventor(s)/ organization(s) should disclose their IP filings to the Government Agency(s) that have funded their research.
iv) To promote more collaborations between VNIT and industry through better clarity on IP ownership and IP licensing.
To create a mechanism for knowledge generation and its commercial exploitation. The purpose of IP commercialization is also to augment the financial self-sustenance goals of VNIT & its labs and to reward faculty and researchers.
2.0 Definitions:
Definitions for different terms used in this document are detailed in Appendix-A.
3.0 Scope of IPR Guidelines
These guidelines shall apply to all Intellectual Property created at VNIT, as well as, all IP rights associated with them, from the date of implementation of these guidelines.
These guidelines shall apply to all "VNIT personnel" (definition as in Appendix-A) who have established legal relationship with VNIT, based on which the researcher is bound by these guidelines. Such a legal relationship may arise pursuant to the provision of law, collective agreement or individual agreement (may refer to employment/ retainership contract/ pursuance of studies or any other legal arrangement).
These guidelines shall not apply in cases in which the researcher entered into an explicit arrangement to the contrary with VNIT prior to the effective date of the guidelines, or VNIT previously entered into an agreement with a third-party concerning rights and obligations set out in these guidelines.
4
心
Details of VNIT's Intellectual Property (IP) Policy
Generic Position: This policy is applicable to all VNIT Personnel i.e. students, faculty, permanent as well as temporary staff and researchers, research scholars/fellows, and any collaborator with the approval of Director, VNIT Nagpur. VNIT personnel are entitled to decide that the results of any research undertaken by them in the course of their employment / engagement with the Institute shall be disseminated through publications or disclosed as they wish in accordance with normal academic practice. However, the concerned parties should be aware of the various Intellectual Properties that get created in the course of their research and teaching that has potential for increased productiveness or break-through development/inventions and creative activities as a means of effective communication and dissemination. This covers the IP generated via collaborative and funded research. Under situations where a particular invention / development come under different sub-policies, the IP Inventions Policy will supersede. The Institute's ability to grant waivers to the creators from non-application of the IP policy will be on the recommendation of the Dean (R&C) of the Institute.
Process for Disclosure and Patenting: VNIT encourages timely disclosure of all potential IP / Inventions / Innovations generated (conceived or reduced to practice in whole or in part) by VNIT personnel of the Institute in the course of their institute related activities utilizing institute resources.
It is required by all VNIT employees (permanent as well as temporary staff including research staff/fellows) to sign an undertaking (VNIT/IPR/24/PStaff-UF Vt S VN//- r sr rr -r regarding IPR disclosure and rights, at the time of their joining the institute. By default, the IP policy is applicable to all the existing VNIT personnel associated with VNIT at any point in time.
Disclosure enables prompt action by VNIT to appropriately protect and disseminate the research output at VNIT, including the joint R&D with external agencies.
The process of disclosure and the protection of VNIT Intellectual Property is mentioned below (from points d to o) in detail. The same is summarized as a flow-chart as well.
The first step is to inform the Dean (R&C) office about the possibility of the potential invention and intention for patent filing. Dean (R&C) office will provide the inventor with the list of empaneled patent attorney/firms.
A panel of Patent Attorneys/agencies shall be empaneled by VNIT and would be available by choice to any person from VNIT to undergo the process of submission of IPR.
It is strongly recommended to get the patentability analysis done by professional agency/ Patent Attorney, which covers systematic analysis of state of art and patent search as well as other important components of IPR including innovativeness, non-obviousness, potential for commercialization etc. The expenses for the patentability search/report can be reimbursed through CPDA.
Inventor should formally report the potential invention to the Dean (R&C) Office through IP Cell. This involves submission of the invention disclosure form (VNIT/IPR/24/IDF) provided in this document. The form typically requires brief information about the invention, including its technical description, novelty, potential applications, and any supporting data or prototypes. All such disclosures are considered to be confidential.
Pr
M
Along with the Invention Disclosure Form, the inventor is required to provide supporting documentation, and any other relevant materials that demonstrate the novelty and inventiveness of the invention. The inventor needs to submit the relevant patent search report/results as justification for novelty and sustainability of the patent application.
Proper laboratory records need to be maintained by the inventors as per the san dd sn o a or defending IP protection in case of any dispute during the active life of IP.
The Dean (R&C) Office through the IP Cell will recommend the patent filing process for the invention reported. The decision to apply for provisional patent or complete applications will also be taken during this process.
The inventor can contact empaneled patent attorney to prepare the patent application. This involves drafting a detailed description of the invention, including its technical features and embodiments. The application should also include claims that define the scope of protection the inventor is seeking for invention. In some cases, approvals/agreements from agencies like DST/DBT/NBA might be required for patent filling which inventor needs to procure.
Once the patent application is finalized and approved, it can be filed through the empaneled patent attorney with the appropriate patent office. This typically includes submitting the application forms, fees, and supporting documents. In all such patent applications, VNIT should be credited as an applicant.
After filing, the patent application will undergo examination by the patent office. The inventor may be required to respond to any inquiries or requests for additional information from the patent examiner. This process may involve several rounds of review and communication with the patent office. Addressing the comments of patent office will be the responsibility of inventor(s) in association with patent attorneys.
Once the patent is granted, the Dean (R&C) Office will notify the inventor of the granted patent.
If the invention is successfully patented, the inventor can explore opportunities for commercialization and licensing. The technology transfer office can assist in identifying potential industry partners or licensing opportunities to bring the invention to the market. The license free, royalty premia and other important conditions of know-how transfer will be jointly decided by the Inventors and Dean (R&C) office / IP Cell / Technology Transfer office, following certain criteria including investments on invention, market opportunity, social and strategic relevance.
The inventor needs to clarify the ownership of intellectual property rights with the institution. VNIT has policies that govern IP ownership for inventions made by faculty, staff, or students, as detailed in this document. The inventor needs to understand the ownership rights and any potential revenue-sharing or royalty agreements that may apply if the invention is commercialized. This is crucial when the work is done in collaborative manner with researchers inside the institute as well as with external collaborators. This policy describes how to determine IP rights and usage in case of collaboration.
Flowchart for Patenting Process
Ownership: The IP policy has to be accepted and signed by all VNIT Personnel. By default, it is binding on all the VNIT personnel including students, faculty, permanent/temporary staff, research personnel etc. VNIT owns all the Intellectual Property (IP) that is produced by all VNIT personnel. Refer to Appendix-B to AppendixE, for relevant details regarding exceptions. VNIT reserves the right to apply for IP protection in India / throughout the world / specific countries for suitable protection of the IP generated.
Institute shall be the owner of all intellectual properties (IP) including inventions, software, dss rds s s s shy creators (VNIT personnel) unless specific agreements/contracts are entered into by the Institute. The details of such cases are given in Appendix B to Appendix E.
The ownership rights on IP may vary according to the context in which the concerned IP is generated. In this regard, a two-tier classification is suggested for adoption:
A. IP generated from research conducted by utilizing resources of VNIT
i. PATENTS
All inventions whether made by student/ researcher/ faculty (in furtherance of their responsibilities with VNIT), developed by utilizing the resources of VNIT, or with the mix of funds, resources and/or facilities of VNIT, shall ordinarily be vested with VNIT. In such cases, VNIT should be credited as applicant for the patent application. The patent application will be in the name of VNIT with inventors names mentioned. The benefits to inventors in such IPs will be decided as per the procedure mentioned in point IV mentioned below.
If VNIT determines that an invention was made by an individual(s) on his/her own time and unrelated to his/her responsibilities towards VNIT and was conceived or reduced to practice without the use of resources of VNIT, then the institute may take a decision on allowing the vesting of the invention with the individual(s)/ inventor(s).
Other forms of IP that can be generated includes Copyright, Trademarks, Industrial designs, Semiconductor integrated circuits and plant variety. The details are given in Appendix D.
B. IP generated from research conducted in collaboration with external partners
With regard to research conducted in collaboration with external partners, ownership of IP shall be determined as per the terms and conditions in the agreement signed between the concerned parties. However, unless agreed upon explicitly, VNIT shall normally retain perpetual, royalty free license to use the IP for research and educational purposes.
In the absence of a specific agreement between VNIT, and the external partner, who is providing support for research, the IP rights shall be shared amongst the concerned parties.
See Appendix C for more details.
IP Licensing and Agreements: The type of license provided will depend on the nature of the invention / innovation. VNIT, being a Government of India funded institute, encourages non-exclusive licensing towards wider deployment of innovations being developed at the Institute. Under certain exceptions, VNIT might consider exclusive licensing for a specified duration. In case of platform wide use of inventions/innovations and or where significant resources/effort have to be invested by the licensee in using the IP, the Institute might consider providing an application and / or region specific or a full-scale exclusive license. Due diligence, not limiting to business plan, business model, milestones and usage plan of the IP in discussion and other relevant information as required, would be undertaken, in order to determine the type of licensing to be provided. In case the exclusive licensee fails to commercialize or exploit the invention in a specified duration, VNIT will have rights to license the IP to other licensees following a procedure.
The details about IP licensing, license exemptions, revenue sharing and technology license/transfer are given in Appendix C.
IV. Commercial Research outputs generated as a result of utilization of resources of VNIT
VNIT is free to enter into revenue sharing agreement(s) with the researcher(s), in cases of commercialization of innovation(s), creation(s), etc., as per the advice of the Dean (R&C) office. The details of revenue sharing may be decided, based on the type of IP and the nature of commercialization. VNIT may adopt various models for royalty sharing amongst creator(s)/ inventor(s) and institution/ organization; a suggestive arrangement is described in Appendix C.
V. Research outputs generated in collaboration with external partners
The revenue sharing on any IP generated from a partnership between VNIT and external partners should be based on the agreement signed between the VNIT and the external partner at the beginning of such collaborations.
In circumstances wherein, the assignee or the licensee has not taken adequate steps for the commercialization of VNIT – owned intellectual property, VNIT may consider revocation of the license and assigning it to another party, after following due process. It is important to add this as a clause in any agreement entered by VNIT, with regard to commercialization of technologies.
VI. Limitation of Liability
All commercialization agreements shall clearly mention that VNIT is protected and indemnified from all liability arising from development and commercialization of the IP.
VII. Sharing of Costs with regard to IP protection
With regard to the costs involved in IP protection, the following is suggested:
The expenses involved in obtaining and maintaining IP protection may be shared between the parties, depending their IP shares. If VNIT is the sole owner of IP, the costs of IP protection shall be borne by VNIT.
In case VNIT refuses to incur expenditure in protecting IP, inventor may be allowed to file IP applications in the name of VNIT at their own costs. Under such circumstances, IP filing costs may be recouped as per the provisions relating to benefit sharing as described under the Licensing agreements and revenue sharing section.
If the IP ownership is shared with external partners, the costs for IP protection may be shared by both the parties, based on the terms and conditions provided in the agreement.
It is preferable that any costs involved in the transfer of rights/ ownership of the academic institution – owned IP may be borne exclusively by the licensee, assignee or person acquiring such rights.
VIII. Waiver of IP rights by VNIT
Subject to any associated agreements, or any other agreement thereof, VNIT may waive its rights, if VNIT decides not to pursue the protection of IP within a period fixed by VNIT, from sufficient disclosure by the researcher(s) to VNIT.
VNIT shall take all efforts to convey the decision to the researcher, whether to pursue or not pursue the protection of IP, within a stipulated time period, after sufficient disclosure by the researcher, of VNIT. Under all such circumstances, unless explicitly agreed to, VNIT, shall retain a non-exclusive, royalty-free, irrevocable, and worldwide license to use the IP for research and educational purposes.
IP Renewal: Renewal of IP Rights: A decision on the annual renewal of IP rights will be taken by VNIT and if the institute decides not to renew the IPR in any country, then it may assign the IP rights in that country to the creator(s) based on a request to that effect from the creator(s) with an internal review. In all cases, where IP rights in any specific country have been reassigned to the inventor(s), VNIT shall not claim any share of proceeds earned through that IP in that country excepting for the costs already incurred by VNIT.
Action against infringement: If at any time the patentee finds that somebody is infringing his patent-rights, patentee should inform him in writing that his patent rights are being infringed by his commercial working of the same or related invention.
XI. Use of VNIT's IP Resources:
VNIT may allow the use of the following IP resources by third parties as per conditions described in Appendix D.
Important considerations by the researchers/inventors are :
Use of technology protected by IPRs like patents and design
Use of copyrighted materials
Promotion of the use of Free and Open Source Software (FOSS)
Confidentiality, Data Protection and Privacy
Publications
These are described in detail inAppendix D.
Infringements, Damages, Liability and Indemnity Insurance: VNIT shall, in any contract/agreement between the licensee and VNIT, seek indemnity from any legal proceedings including without limitation manufacturing defects, production problems, design guarantee, upgrades, debug obligations and the content created. The policy also supports the need to indemnify VNIT personnel built into the license agreements for sponsored research and consultative work. VNIT shall retain the right to engage in any litigation concerning its IP and license infringements.
Conflict of Interest: The inventor(s) are required to disclose potential conflict of interest while undertaking any IP related activity. If the inventor(s) and/or their immediate family have a stake in a licensee or potential licensee company then they are required to disclose the stake they and / or their immediate family have in the company. VNIT license to a company in which the inventors also have a stake and management role shall be subject to the approval of the Director VNIT Nagpur through the office of Dean (R&C) taking the above consideration into fact. Inventors helping external agencies by way of non-executive roles, will disclose the potential conflict of interest and these roles are subject to the approval by Director VNIT through Dean (R&C). AllVNIT Personnel shall be bound by the conflict-of-interest related policy / guidelines of VNITas applicable from time to time. (ANNEXURE VI).
XIV.Dispute Resolution: In case of any disputes between VNIT and the inventors / creators regarding the implementation of the IP policy, the aggrieved party may appeal to the Director of VNIT. Efforts shall be made to address the concerns of the aggrieved party through the appointment of a committee of experts and the verdict of the Director is final.
VNIT shall appoint a committee of experts to address the concerns of the aggrieved person(s) and all disputes thereunder shall be dealt with by this committee.
In case of any disputes between VNIT and the inventor(s) / creator(s)/ any other aggrieved person(s), regarding the implementation of these guidelines, scope, operation or effect of any contract/ agreement entered into, or the validity or breach thereof, the inventor(s) / creator(s)/ any other aggrieved person(s) may appeal to this committee appointed by VNIT. Efforts shall be made to address the concerns of the aggrieved party through the appointment of a committee of experts and the verdict of the Director in this regard is final.
The decision taken by this committee should be within a prescribed time period (as decided by VNIT/ committee) from submission of said concern. Over and beyond the above, with respect to any legal dispute arising under these guidelines, the relevant provisions of law shall be applicable.
Jurisdiction: All agreements to be signed by VNIT will have the jurisdiction of the court in Nagpur and shall be governed by appropriate laws of India.
If the inventor(s) / creator(s)/ any other aggrieved person(s) is not satisfied with the verdict/ decision of the committee, mechanisms such as: Alternate Dispute Resolution (ADR), Arbitration & Conciliation, Mediation, or appeal to the Court of Adjudicature nearest to VNIT, may be opted and the same shall be governed by the appropriate laws of India.All agreements to be signed by VNIT will have the jurisdiction of the court in Nagpur and shall be governed by appropriate laws of India.
XVI.Powers to Amend IP policy
VNIT Nagpur through its Board of Governors (BoG), will have the full power to make changes to the
IP policy or bring out a new policy as and when it is felt necessary. This can happen in view of changes in government policies and/or national/international developments including treaties or legal judgements. The changes or the new policy shall be applicable to all VNIT personnel including its visitors.
Definitions :
"Institute" or "VNIT" means Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT), Nagpur, established under the NIT Act 2007.
"VNIT Personnel" means an employee of VNIT Nagpur (includes those who are on probation), i.e. faculty members and staff (including permanent as well as temporary staff), all students, research scholars/fellows/doctoral-students and post-doctoral fellows, non-employees who participate or intend to participate in research projects at VNIT (including visiting faculty, industry personnel, visiting students, fellows, etc.) either in a direct or indirect relationship with VNIT or through any related activity, those who are employed on temporary basis either in the Institute and/or in projects and those who are research workers, research scholars or students.
"Author": An author is as defined under Section 2(d) of the Copyright Act, 1957.
"Creator"or "Inventor" means VNIT Personnel who are responsible for the creation of an Intellectual Property, using the facilities and resources of the Institute. Creator means the researcher who contributed to the creation of the Intellectual Property (IP) (essentially copyrights, designs, etc.)
"Copyright" means the exclusive right granted by the law for a certain period of time to an author to reproduce, print, publish and sell copies of his or her creative work.
"Patent" means a patent granted under the provisions of the Indian Patents Act, 1970 or any other country or geographical region as applicable.
"Patentee"means generator or proprietor of the patent who is the "Creator" or "Inventor". Inventor means the researcher who contributed to the creation of the Intellectual Property (essentially patents).
"Intellectual Property"or "IP": as provided under Article I of the Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS), refers to all categories of intellectual property that are subject of Sections 1 to 7 of Part II of the TRIPS Agreement.
Intellectual Property Rights: means ownership and associated rights relating to aforementioned Intellectual Property, either registered or unregistered, and including applications or rights to apply for them and together with all extensions and renewals of them, and in each and every case, all rights or forms of protection having equivalent or similar effect anywhere in the world. The IPRs recognized in India are broadly listed below and includes any property generated out of intellectual effort of the inventor(s). It includes, but not limited to, the following:
Patent: As defined under Section 2(m) of the Patents Act, 1970. New and useful scientific and technical advancement in the form of innovations, inventions, products, models, processes, computer hardware and software, materials, biological varieties, etc. which are patentable.
Copyright: Copyright is a right given to creators of literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works and producers of cinematograph films and sound recordings. Works are as defined under the Copyright Act, 1957.
Trade Mark: As defined under Section 2(zb)of the Trade Marks Act, 1999.
Design: As defined under Section 2 (d) of the Designs Act, 2000.
Semiconductor Integrated Circuit: As defined under Section 2(r) of the Semiconductor Integrated Circuits Layout Design Act, 2000.
Plant Variety: It is governed by the Protection of Plant Variety and Farmers Rights Act, 2001. It recognizes the contributions of both commercial plant breeders and farmers in plant breeding activity and also supports the specific socio-economic interests of all the stakeholders including private, public sectors and research institutions, as well as resource constrained farmers.
pu
Appendix A
Geographical Indication: As defined under Section 2 (e) of the Geographical Indications Act, 1999.
Industrial and architectural design, models, drawings, software, creative, artistic and literary works, teaching resource materials generated, records of research etc, which are copyrightable.
Service marks, logos, etc.
"Revenue" means any payment received as per an agreement by the institute usually for legal use of an Intellectual Property through a license or any other means.
Collaborative Activity: is the research undertaken by the personnel in VNIT, in cooperation/collaboration with industry and/or another researcher(s), who are not the personnel from VNIT.
External Partners: includes Government of India, State Government(s), Local Self Governments, Government Departments, Foreign Governments, International Organizations, Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs), all types of Private Sector Organizations, Multinational Corporations, Non-Governmental Organizations, and/or other institutions that provide research projects or consultancy assignments to researchers on regular or irregular basis; or any combination(s) of the above.
Moral Rights: Moral rights are enshrined under the aegis of Section 57 of the Copyright Act, 1957.2 They are the author's or creator's special rights which include: the right to paternity and the right to integrity.
Research: Ownership rights over IP generated in VNITs may vary as per source of funding, for the research through which IP was generated. Hence, it is important to understand the different contexts in which IP may be generated within VNITs. Some of the important contexts in which they produce IP are:
Research undertaken by a researcher in the normal course of his/her engagement/ appointment with VNIT, utilising resources of the institution. This includes, but is not limited to, use of space, facilities, materials, or other resources of VNIT, specific monetary support for research through grants or fellowships, funds for procuring books/ equipment or materials for specific research projects, and creation/ modification of infrastructure like labs for the specific needs of research.
Research undertaken by a researcher in collaboration with an external partner. This support from external partners includes, but is not limited to, specific monetary support given for research through grants or fellowships.
Researcher: means;
persons employed by VNIT, including student employees and technical staff;
students, including undergraduate, postgraduate, doctoral and post-doctoral students of VNIT;
any persons, including visiting scientists;
who use the resources of VNIT and who perform any research task at VNIT or otherwise participate in any research project(s) administered by VNIT, including those funded by external sponsors. Wherever different conditions are applicable for any of the subcategories of researchers, they arespecifically mentioned in the guidelines.
Research Agreement: May refer to Research Service Agreement, Cooperative Research and Development Agreement, Material Transfer Agreement, Confidentiality Agreement, Consultancy Agreement and any other type of agreement concerning research pursued by researchers and/or IP created at VNIT.
Royalty: It is the payment made to an inventor/author or an institution for legal use of a patented invention or any intellectual property when licensed.
Sufficient Disclosure: It means providing a detailed description of features essential for carrying out the invention, in order to render it apparent how to put the invention into practice to a person skilled in the art.
Appendix B
The Inventions related IP Policy
B.1 Applicability & Requirements: This policy is applicable to all VNIT personnel as defined in the overall IP policy and their range of activities such as, but not limited to, teaching, research, distance education and modules, continuing education programme, consultancy, sponsored work, collaborative research (internal and external) and the range of inventions includes patentable subject matter, trade mark / service mark, geographical indicators, design registrations, models, process, computer software, integrated circuits layout, plant varieties, materials transfer and other related necessary Confidential Information. Evaluation of academic work associated with IP creation will be subject to the Institute norms as applicable from time to time. Any agreement with an external agency, which requires delay in public disclosure for the purpose of IP protection, should usually not have effect for longer than three months from the time of notification by VNIT to the said agency. The applicability of the IP policy will be covered through appropriate forms to be filled by the Institute personnel.
B.2 Relevant inventions and Ownership: Under this policy, title to such inventions including software where applicable, designs and integrated circuit layouts and patentable subject matter that are created in VNIT with the use of significant VNIT resources are assigned to and owned by VNIT, regardless of the source of funding, if any. All inventors / creators are required to ensure that an inventor's agreement is filled at the time of submission of an invention disclosure to VNIT. This agreement would among other aspects, include ratio of sharing any revenue received from commercialization of the said technology amongst VNIT inventors / creators, as and when applicable. Absence of such an agreement will be considered as equal sharing amongst VNIT inventors / creators.
B.3 Ownership exemption: VNIT encourages IP generation by VNIT personnel through external collaborations as well. The possibility of exemption to ownership is given in the following cases and VNIT reserves the right to revise these exemptions on a case to case basis.
If the inventor / creator is not related with VNIT or if the inventor / creator has not used significant resources of VNIT in case of external collaborations, then the inventor(s) / creator(s) are to submit the lack of using significant resources (as described inAnnexure 1) for exemption purposes. If VNIT is not interested to take forward the disclosed invention / creation towards IP protection or through prior specific agreement, or in case of VNIT not protecting an IP, the inventor(s) / creator(s) are provided with the permission to protect the same in countries of their choice.
B.4 External Funded / Collaborative Development: For the relevant invention(s)including software, designs and integrated circuit layouts, produced during the course of a sponsored and / or collaborative activity (internal / external), specific provisions related to IP made in contracts governing the collaborative activities are to be referred along with this policy. Cases where confidential data and results are to be used by the Institute for its academic and research work, exclusive access to the relevant project members have to be provided. Relevant faculty, students and researchers who would contribute in such projects are to be duly notified of potential delay in approval for publication, academic and research related activities before accepting such project proposals. Based on such
agreements as signed by VNIT, the following scenarios are envisaged:
B.4.1 VNIT is the sole owner of the IP generated from the funding provided.
B.4.2 The IP generated is owned jointly with the collaborative partner having the first rights of refusal towards commercialization.
B.4.3 In the case of a collaborative / multiple consortium-based IP generation, the IP terms of such agreement is to be considered along with the policy. In the absence of any specific IP agreement in such cases, VNIT follows its IP policy.
B.4.4 VNIT can assign the IP generated, to the funding agency based on the nature of the technology, funding and specific applications.
Under all circumstances, VNIT always reserves the right to use the IP generated for its academic and research purposes.
B.5 Design Rights: The design right for a created component (physical or graphic, any dimension) follows the IP inventions policy as indicated in this document.
B.6 Trade Mark(s) / Service Mark(s): The logo of VNIT would be the trademark of the Institute. It is to be noted that the logo of VNIT cannot be used on any of the private communication of any of VNIT personnel. Official activities that are part of the officially recognized bodies of VNIT, web pages hosted on VNIT domain, project websites and reports in which VNIT is a project member, student thesis are allowed by default to have VNIT logo. The usage of VNIT logo, VNIT name in full or partial for all other activities has to get the due approval of VNIT.
B.7 Material Transfer Agreements (MTAs): This agreement is of relevance to activity which requires a physical material access for research. VNIT follows a material transfer agreement aligned with its academic and research needs. The MTA is used for both VNIT to provide a material (typically biological) to any other external party and alsoto request any t Stioanattntonaton with Dean (R&C), VNIT for all materials transferred to and from external agencies.
RV
Appendix C
Issues related to collaborations with external agencies, Commercial Research Outputs, IP licensing, License exemptions, Technology Transfer
I. IPR generated through third party collaboration / funding
Prior to the creation of the IP, with an agency funding the research leading to the creation of the IP, or with a temporary employee or student. Specific provisions related to IPR made in contracts governing the collaborative activity shall have VNIT ownership of IP arising out of sponsored/ collaborative research/consultancy. The MoU/contract for such a project may require (a) joint ownership of IP between VNIT and the sponsor, or (b) full ownership of such IP by the sponsor, or (c) exclusive licensing of such IP owned by the Institute to the sponsor or its nominees, or (d) a separate agreement/contract to be entered at a later date consequent to creation of such IP, for exclusive/nonexclusive ownership/licensing of the IP. In all such cases, the contract/agreement/MoU will specify conditions such as right of first refusal to such IP if applicable, the fee/royalty payable for ownership/licensing of such IP as applicable. When a faculty/staff enters into an agreement for undertaking sponsored research/ consultancy, they are required to assist the Institute to determine which of the above options is applicable to the particular project given the nature of research proposed to be undertaken, the degree to which prior relevant expertise of the researchers and Institute facilities are leveraged, and the amount of funding provided. If an IP is created as a result of a sponsored research or consultancy where the contract/MoU/agreement does not specify the ownership and/or licensing of such IP, the Institute and the sponsor shall jointly own the IP. The Institute may however, if it deems appropriate, enter into a separate agreement/contract with the sponsor for licensing the IP, which will specify payment of additional fees/royalty. An employee of the Institute who is on sabbatical or other forms of leave, or a student who is on leave is permitted by the Institute to be employed in an organization while being registered as a student, and who is engaged in research in the organization with the permission of VNIT and will be permitted to directly negotiate with the organization, the terms of any IP sharing that is generated without any use of Institute resources, during the duration of engagement in that organization. However, any revenue that is received by the employee/student subsequently while on duty at the Institute, as royalty/fees for the IP generated as above, shall be subjected to the prevailing IPR revenue sharing norms of the Institute.
II. Commercial Research outputs generated as a result of utilization of resources of VNIT
VNIT is free to enter into revenue sharing agreement(s) with the researcher(s), in cases of commercialization of innovation(s), creation(s), etc., as per the advice of the Dean (R&C) office. The details of revenue sharing may be decided, based on the type of IP and the nature of commercialization. VNIT may adopt various models for royalty sharing amongst creator(s)/ inventor(s) and institution/ organization; a suggestive arrangement is described as below:
70:30 ratio of revenue sharing: 70% of the royalty/ technology transfer amount with the researcher and 30% with VNIT.
Deciding the division of royalty/ technology transfer amount on fixed slabs may be decided.
In case the IP filing costs were not borne by VNIT, the researcher maybe allowed to first deduct the costs incurred for filing of applications and maintenance of such IP, from any income accruing from the commercial exploitation of the IP. This is particularly relevant,
17
as provisional patent applications may have to be filed by the innovators before any disclosure of the innovation. Only the income beyond such costs needs to be shared with VNIT.
The researcher's share may continue to be paid, irrespective of whether or not the individual continues as a researcher at VNIT.
If more than one researcher is involved in the generation of IP, all the researchers who qualify for benefit sharing in that IP may sign at the time of filing the application (for example, at the time of filing of patent application), an agreement outlining the proposed distribution of any IP-related earnings based on their contribution. The agreement should specify the proportional percentage of distribution of earnings from IP to each of the researchers. The researcher(s) may, at any time, by mutual consent, revise the distribution of IP earnings agreement, and VNIT, may approve the revised agreement, subject to the advice of the Dean (R&C) Office.
With regard to the IP-related revenues earned by VNIT, 50% of the revenue may be used for creating VNIT IP management fund. This fund may be utilized for any activity relating to commercialization and maintenance of IPR or obtaining IPR in any other country, or for capacity building in the area of IP protection. Further, 10% of the share may be paid to VNIT as administrative charges, and 40% may be made available to the concerned department for the purchase of equipment or materials, including Annual Maintenance Contracts (AMC), or for any other academic/research activity, including promotion of science and innovation.
In the case where the copyright vests with the author(s) [as mentioned under "IP generated from research conducted by utilizing resources of VNIT. Copyright"], VNIT shall have a non-exclusive, royalty free, irrevocable, and worldwide license to use the IP for research, non-commercial and educational purposes. Additionally, in cases where VNIT is the owner of copyright in lecture videos and/or MOOCs, the author(s) shall have a non-exclusive, royalty free, irrevocable, and worldwide license to use the IP for research, non-commercial and educational purposes.
IP Licensing and Agreements : Licenses are provided to a company/Partnership Firms/Proprietary enterprise and not to an individual. License may be limited to that particular IP in discussion and not to its enhancements or modifications. Licenses provided are subject to periodic review including the working status and accessibility / availability of the IP used. Based on the review of the licensing activities, VNIT reserves the right to extend, modify or terminate the type of existing license provided.
VNIT understands the legitimate commercial needs and the security required in the form of IP especially for breakthrough technologies. VNIT strives to balance this critical requirement against the primary goal of academic and research dissemination leading to a practical usage of the technologies being developed. The licensing is done by VNIT through Dean (R&C office), which handles the evaluation, marketing, negotiations and licensing of the entire institute owned IP (Refer Annexure 4 for details and Annexure 5 for information on Agreements). In certain cases, VNIT might use the services of a third party for licensing the technology developed, under mutually agreed terms and conditions with such party, within the framework of VNIT IP Policy.
Exclusive licensing: The licensor licenses the IP solely to one licensee. In other words, the licensee will be the only one authorized by the licensor to use and exploit the IP in question. To the extent possible, exclusive licenses should be avoided.
Non-exclusive licensing: The licensor is permitted to enter into agreements with more than one entity for use and exploitation of the IP. In other words, the same IP may be used by different licensees at the same time for the same purpose or for different purposes.
Sub-licensing: This is applicable when a licensee wishes to further license the IP to another party(s). Permissions pertaining to sub-licensing need to be clarified explicitly in the agreement between VNIT(s)/ researchers and licensee(s). Given the abundance of creativity and innovation taking place at VNITs and diversity of the creation or innovation so generated, VNIT may combine elements of the aforementioned types of licensing or use other forms of licensing, such as - know-how licensing, etc.
License Preferences and Exemptions: In case of both the inventor(s) and external party(ies) requesting for the license of the same VNIT owned IP at the same time, preference for licensing may be provided to the inventor(s) based on the nature of technology amongst other considerations. Irrespective of the license provided, VNIT retains the right for research exemption and experimental use for patents, design rights and under fair use of copyrights and trademarks on an institute wide perpetual license towards its basic objective of academics and enhancing research. This will include the right to publish, use of technical data, the method, product and related services that has resulted from earlier research which has been licensed for the activities mentioned earlier. In the case of inventions by its faculty / students / research scholars / other VNIT Personnel under lien / sabbatical / visit / internship, VNIT exercises the right to the access of such IP created for the sole purpose of academic work and research under research exemption and fair use, being conducted within its jurisdiction. The stakeholders are encouraged to disclose the invention through appropriate invention disclosure form (IDF) of such developments during their external stay.
Technology License / Transfer Options: VNIT recognizes the inventor(s)/ creator(s) as a key component for successful commercialization process. VNIT shall use the following options to utilize the IP generated. Licensing may be made either directly to third parties or through the incubation center or through licensing agents. It is to be noted that the IP generated would preferably be licensed and not assigned. VNIT reserves its march-in rights in the case of assigned IP. Any licensing done by VNIT will be on an as-is where-is basis.
Technology licensing: This would be as per the current policy and revenues earned will be shared with the inventor(s) in a 70:30 ratio (70% to inventors and 30% for the institute). The 70% due to VNIT inventor(s) will be distributed as per the separate inventor's agreement entered into between the inventors. In the case of multiple VNIT inventors, the default inventors royalty share is done on an equal basis in the absence of an alternate revenue sharing agreement. Details of royalty sharing are given in Annexure 3.
Salient features of the licensing include the following:
Exclusive license will be subjected to periodic review of license not limiting to usage status, application and / or region specific, royalty generation for continuing such license agreement.
Preferred mode is Non-Exclusive licensing. Exceptions to this will be based on the funding of the project and any other relevant requirements.
M
Incubation Centre for Innovation VNIT Nagpur: VNIT inventors and community interested to incubate the technologies developed have an opportunity through Incubation Centre. Salient features for incubation model include the following:
Nature of license (exclusive, non-exclusive or transfer of knowhow) will be based on the nature of the technology developed and on any prior contract governing the IP to be licensed.
Exit time review of the earlier license provided would determine the future mode of license.
Exclusive licensing provided after exit from Incubation Centre will be subject to periodic review based on various measures.
For IP involving multiple inventors, a No-objection Certificate (NoC) from all the inventors concerned is a necessity for an exclusive license to be considered. In the absence of NoCs from all concerned, a nonexclusive license ONLY will be provided to the requester(s).
Licensing through agents: In some cases, VNIT might utilize the services of thirdparty licensing agents and mechanisms for effective deployment of the technology developed. Salient features for third party licensing agents include the following:
Exclusive licensing will be subject to periodic review based on various measures.
The nature of the licensing would be generally non-exclusive.
For an IP which has not been licensed to any party, the creator(s) may also contact potential licensee(s) on their own initiative, maintaining confidentiality and taking all necessary care so as not to affect the value of the IP, through appropriate agreements such as Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) with the potential licensee(s) during technology marketing discussions.
If VNIT has not been able to commercialize the creative work in a reasonable time frame, the creator(s) may approach the Dean (R&C) office for the assignment of rights of the invention(s) to them.
Appendix D
Important considerations for Researchers
VNIT may allow the use of the following IP resources by third parties as per conditions described below.
Intellectual Property already in existence and owned by VNIT;
Usage of the name, logo, or trademark of VNIT in the creation and marketing of intellectual property.
Conditions:
They will be used only in public interest;
They will be used:
in a responsible manner to create a product/process conforming to environmental safety and good manufacturing practices promoted by the Government of India and its regulatory bodies;
in promoting truthful claims and information, i.e., not for misleading the society or users;
without any liability on the university in case of misuse of trademark(s) or accidental damage accruing due to use of trademark(s).
Important considerations by the researchers/inventors are :
Use of technology protected by IPRs like patents and design
Promotion of the use of Free and Open Source Software (FOSS)
Use of copyrighted materials
Confidentiality, Data Protection and Privacy
Publications
These are described below.
Use of technology protected by IPRs like patents and design: It is possible that researchers may have to use diverse technology/ design/ software, as part of their research. Under all such circumstances, due care and attention must be given, for not infringing the IP rights of third parties. Some of the licenses may have restrictions with regard to kind of usages permitted. It is important to ensure that due and necessary permissions are obtained from IP owners prior to engaging in any use which moves beyond the terms of license or as permitted under the relevant statute(s) in India.
Use of copyrighted materials: Whenever researchers use copyrighted material for teaching or research purposes, it needs to be ensured that the use is within the permission obtained from the concerned copyright holder(s) or is within the boundaries of exceptions provided under the Indian copyright law. The scope of different educational use-related exceptions under Indian copyright law have been interpreted by different courts in India.
VNIT will create an Institutional Repository and a link to the same may be provided on their official website. This repository shall include dissertations, theses, papers, publications, and other in-house publications. In the absence of an institutional repository, the researchers may submit such works in other open repositories in the relevant subject area.
ii) The researchers may be encouraged to license their works under an open license
ML
so that other researchers can also use the research outputs by providing appropriate attribution to the researchers
Promotion of the use of Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) : The National IPR Policy, 2016, approved by the Union Cabinet, is a giant leap by the Government of India to spur creativity and stimulate innovation. A vision document, it lays down the roadmap for the future of IPRs in India. It aims to establish an ecosystem in the country, conducive to innovation and creativity not only in terms of IP awareness and creation, but also commercialization and enforcement. In this regard, it is pertinent to note that the policy enshrines the following action point: 5.12.: Promote use of Free and Open-Source Software along with adoption of open standards; possibility of creating Indian standard operating environments will be examined.
The use of Free and Open-Source Software (FOSS) can help in furthering the software-related skills of students and researchers. Wide adoption of FOSS would also improve the quality of software and lower the long-term costs of research in the universities. Hence VNIT may:
actively promote the use of FOSS among researchers, along with adoption of open standards;
ii) regularly organize training programmes in FOSS for researchers;
iv) as far as possible, use FOSS for all official purposes.
iii) license VNIT – owned software under open licenses; and
Confidentiality, Data Protection and Privacy: All users of information, documents and/or data within VNIT, must ensure that the same is always held securely and all activities pertaining to such information, documents and/or data will be kept confidential by the user(s) and will be used only for purpose of defined activities. VNIT shall strive to protect the data and personal information against unauthorized access, loss, destruction or breach. It is suggested to have proper nondisclosure agreements with the user(s) in place to secure such confidential information, documents and/or data.
Notwithstanding the above, any information which falls within one of the following shall not be treated as Confidential Information:
already under public domain;
is independently developed by the researcher; and
is required by law or regulation to be disclosed;
is received from a third party having no obligations of confidentiality to the disclosing party.
5. Publications:
Any publication, document and/or paper arising out of research activities shall be owned jointly by VNIT and researcher(s). The use of name, logo and/ or official emblem of VNIT shall not be done without prior written permission from the institution.
While the researcher may publish material relating to the research, it may be better for both the researcher and VNIT to jointly decide on any publication to be made.
Particular care needs to be taken that no publication is made till the patent, if
P
applicable, is filed.
VNIT may retain the right to require exclusion of certain portions from the information being published.
Given below are the details for IP rights when IP in the form of Copyright, Trademarks, Industrial designs and semiconductor integrated circuits and plant variety are generated by using the resources ofVNIT.
i. COPYRIGHT
a.
The ownership rights in scholarly and academic works generated utilising resources of VNIT, including books, articles, student projects/dissertations/ theses, lecture notes, audio or visual aids for giving lectures shall ordinarily be vested with the author(s). If the work is produced during the course of sponsored/collaborative activity, specific provisions related to IPR made in contracts governing such activity shall determine the ownership of the copyright. Institute shall be the owner of the copyright of work, including software, created with significant use of Institute resources, and the name of VNIT as such should be exclusively mentioned. Institute shall be the owner of the copyright on all teaching material developed, including online material, as part of any academic/distance learning programs of Institute. However, the creator(s) shall have the right to use the material for professional uses. In case of online material, logo/name of VNIT being the owner of
the material needs to be explicitly mentioned.
The ownership rights in lecture videos, online teaching, or Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs), films, plays, and musical works, institutional materials including, but not limited to, course syllabi, curricula, exam questions, exam instructions, and papers/ reports specifically commissioned by VNIT, shall ordinarily be vested with VNIT. The moral rights shall continue to vest with the author(s) wherever applicable. In this case as well, logo/name of VNIT being the owner of the material needs to be explicitly mentioned.
All PhD theses are to be copyrighted with a copyright note: © Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology Nagpur (year). All rights reserved. The technical reports, review works, may also be copyrighted, if the author wishes to copyright. The author of a report may also request to copyright on behalf of VNIT any other material such as B. Tech/M. Tech project reports. While copyrighting the thesis it's responsibility of the creator to ensure that the contents do not violate any copyright rules. If diagrams, tables and text are reproduced from any other copyrighted work, prior permission is to be obtained by the creators from the owner of the copy right document from where the material is taken. The information from some other sources if included, appropriate acknowledgement has to be given, as per copyright law.
Exceptions: (i) The ownership of the copyrights by the Institute in no way deprives the claims of the creators/authors to publish the contributions in scholarly and intellectual work, and their authority to improve, publish and propagate the work. Whet a s ed a u t a iees copyright for the paper to be given to them before publishing the said paper, the employee/student may do so. (ii) The Institute may waive ownership of copyrights it owns in favour of the author(s), contributor(s) on request. (iii) Students and scholars may be allowed ownership of the copy rights to their works provided they do not result from works for which they had received financial/supervisory support of any form from or through the Institute and the work does not include any material generated entirely or partially with the help of VNIT facility or ongoing research programme or the intellectual input of any employee of the Institute.
ii. TRADE MARKS
Ownership of trade mark(s), service mark(s), logos created for Institute shall be with the Institute. In cases of all IP produced at VNIT, Institute strongly desire to retain a non-exclusive, free, irrevocable license to copy/use the IP for teaching and research purposes only, consistent with confidentiality agreements entered into by the Institute.
VNIT may formulate necessary guidelines regarding the usage of VNIT through their trade mark. This enables VNIT to benefit from IP created by its staff/students for carrying out its teaching and research functions.
If VNIT determines that the creator of the trade mark was created by an individual(s) on his/ her own time and unrelated to his/ her responsibilities [e.g. name of a company/ start-up venture by the student(s)], then the right to the same shall ordinarily be vested with the said individual(s).
iii. INDUSTRIAL DESIGNS
All industrial designs whether made by student/ researcher/ faculty (in furtherance of their responsibilities with VNIT) developed by utilising the resources of VNIT, or with the mix of funds, resources and/or facilities of VNIT, shall ordinarily be vested with VNIT.
If VNIT determines that the industrial design was created by an individual(s) on his/her own time and unrelated to his/her responsibilities towards VNIT and was conceived or reduced to practice without the use of resources of VNIT, then the industrial design shall vest with the individual(s).
iv. SEMICONDUCTOR INTEGRATED CIRCUITS ANDPLANT VARIETY
The ownership rights over integrated circuits and plant varieties, with the utilization of resources of VNIT, shall vest with VNIT.
If VNIT determines that the semiconductor integrated circuit layout design or plant variety was created by an individual(s) on his/her own time and unrelated to his/her responsibilities towards VNIT and was conceived or reduced to practice without the use of resources of VNIT, then the semiconductor integrated circuit layout design or plant variety shall vest with the individual(s).
Appendix E
The Expressions related IP Policy
E.1 Applicability & Requirements: This policy is applicable to all VNIT personnel as defined in the overall IP policy and their range of activities during their engagement with VNIT such as, but not limited to teaching, research, distance education, continuing education, consultancy, sponsored work, collaborative activity (internal and external), Institute designated or sponsored work (academic, cultural) and the range of creations includes copyrightable works and related necessary confidential information.
This sub policy is limited to the literal component of any deliverable and patentable / Inventions - related content will be under the purview of the IP inventions policy. As an example, thesis under the copyright policy of VNIT Nagpur refers only to the literary work of the thesis. Evaluation of academic work associated with IP creation will be subject to Institute norms as applicable from time to time. Any agreement with an external agency, which requires delay in public disclosure for the purpose of IP protection, should usually not have effect for longer than three months from the time of notification by VNIT to the said agency.
E.2 Relevant creations and ownership: Title to such creations including literary works, software, music, cinematography, sound and other rights covered under the Copyright Act of India, 1956 and amendments thereof, where applicable, that are created in VNIT with the use of significant VNIT resources under this policy are assigned to and owned by VNIT. VNIT is the owner to the administrative and other documents created as part of designated work. Examples include course outline documents, question papers, answer sheets, grade ranking sheet, and other such creations. All the creations are required to ensure that the inventor's agreement is filled at the time of submission to VNIT. This agreement would among other aspects, include ratio of sharing of any revenue received from commercialization of the said creation. Absence of such an agreement will be considered as equal sharing amongst the creators.
E.3 Ownership exemptions: Exemption to ownership is given in the following cases and VNIT reserves the right to revise these exemptions on a case to case basis. Copyright being present by default on any material being created, the policy provides the following ownership exemptions to the various creations that occur as part of VNIT personnel's activities. The copyright ownership is treated separately for the various creations identified.
Teaching / Course material in offline as well as online mode
C.3.1 VNIT acknowledges that the author is the owner of teaching materials, created for teaching purposes during author's engagement with / stay at VNIT.
C.3.2 As most of the course content is created cumulatively and in order to enable a wider usage and distribution of the teaching materials created, VNIT by default gets a license to the copyright and all other rights of the content created by the creator for fair dealing under academic and research context.
C.3.3 VNIT is not liable for any of the copyright violations by its personnel for the content created. The author is expected to carry out due diligence in the course of content creation.
