SOURCE_URL: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1In5LlODvePl8yo3geWGB0JXYgUCplR6g/view
TITLE: Gazette Notification NIT-Statutes Dated 23 April 2009
FETCHED: 2025-07-28
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/nit-acts-statutes
---
Document: Gazette Notification NIT-Statutes Dated 23 April 2009 (dated 2025-07-28)
To The Directors, National Institutes of Technology (NITs)
Subject:- First Statutes under the National Institutes of Technology Act, 2007 (29 of 2007) – Forwarding of the Gazette Notification.
Sir / Madam,
I am directed to forward herewith a copy of the Notification published in Gazette of ndi ti ( - -in i 'l - Pnet ing the First Statutes under the National Institutes of Technology Act, 2007 for information and necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
[MADAN MOHAN] Director (NIT) Telefax: 23387465
Maeeh.
No.F.22 – 5/ 2006 – TS.III (Pt.)
Ministry of Human Resource Development Department of Higher Education
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi, the 11th May, 2009
Goverment of India
EXTRAORDINARY
①)RaR-hf€Rn8-1!LlH PAXT 1Seetion3Sub-seetion (i)
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY
. 243]
No. 243]
,, 23, 2009/ 3, 1931
NEW DELHI, THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 2009/VAISAKHA 3, 1931
MINISTRY OF HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
(Department of Higher Education)
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 23rd April, 2009
G.S.R. 280(E). – In exercise of powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 26 of the National Institutes of Technology Act, 2007, (29 of 2007) the Central Government, with the prior approval of the Visitor, hereby frames the following First Statutes for all National Institutes of Technology, namely :-
1. SHORTTITLE,EXTENTANDCOMMENCEMENT
These Statutes may be called The First Statutes of the National Institutes of Technology.
They shall apply to all National Institutes ofTechnology.
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.DEFINITIONS
In these First Statutes, unless the context otherwise requires,
A o a)
(b) "Authorities", "Officers" and "Faculty Members" in relation to an Institute mean, respectively, the authorities, officers and faculty members of the Institute.
(c) "Building and Works Committee" means the Building and Works Committee of the Institute constituted under First Statute No 12.
(d)"Centre" in relation to an Institute means an academic unit of the Institute engaged in academic activities (like teaching, research, etc.) generally of aninter-disciplinary nature;
D o nn t n n (h Institute engaged in academic activities (like teaching, research, etc)
generally relating to a particular discipline or area.
(f) "Finance Committee" means the Finance Committee of the Institute constituted under First StatuteNo.10;
(g) "Head of a Department or Centre", by whatever name called, means the person appointed to head the Department or Centre, as the case may be, under First StatuteNo.20;
(h) "Programme" means an academic programme of the Institute;
(i) "rules" means the rules made under Chapter-III of theAct;
(j) "Schedule" means Schedule annexed to these Statutes
Words and expressions used herein and not defined but definedin the Act, shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3. AUTHORITIES
The following shall be the authorities ofthe Institute. Namely:-
(i) the Board ofGovernors as constituted under Section 11 of the Act:
(ii) the Senate as constituted under section 14 of theAct;
(iii) the Finance Committee. as constituted under First Statute 10; and
(iv) the Building and Works Committee as constituted under First Statute No.12
4. BOARD OF GOVERNORS AND MEETINGS THEREOF
The bodies entitled to nominate or elect representatives of the Board shall ee d od ui e ht weeks from the date on which such invitations are issued byhim.
(2)Casual vacancies on the Board shall befilled up by following the procedure specified under sub-statue(1).
The Board shall ordinarily meet four times during a calendar year.
(4)Meetings of the Board shall be convened by the Chairperson either on his own motion or at the request at the Director or on a requisition signed by notless thanfour members of the Board.
(5)Six members shall form a quorum for a meeting of the Board:
provided that if a meeting is adjourned for want of quorum, it shall be held on the same day in the next week at the same time and place or on such other day time and place, asthe Chairperson may determine, and if at such a meeting, a quorum is not present within half-an-hour from the scheduled time for holding a meeting, the members present shall form the quorum.
(6)All questions considered at the meetings of the Board shall be decided by a majority of the votes of the members present including the Chairperson and if the votes be equally divided, the Chairperson shall have a casting vote.
(7)The Chairperson, if presentshall preside overeverymeeting ofthe Board:
Provided that in the absence of the Chairperson, the members present shall elect a member from amongst themselves to preside at themeeting.
A written notice of every meeting shall be sent by the Registrar to every member at least fifteen days before the date of the meeting mentioning therein the place, date and time of the meeting:
Provided thatthe Chairperson may call a special meeting of the Board at short notice to consider urgent issues.
The notice may be delivered either by hand or sent by registered post or Email or Fax, at the address Of each' member as recorded in the office of the Board and if so sent shall be deemed to be duly delivered at the time at which notice would be delivered In the ordinary course of post.
(10)Agenda shall be circulated by the Registrar to all members at least ten days before the meeting.
Notices of motions for inclusion of any item on the agenda must reach the Registrar at least oneweekbefore themeeting:
Provided that the Chairperson may permit inclusion of any item for whichdue noticehas notbeenreceived.
The ruling of the Chairperson with regard to all questions of procedure shall be final
The minutes of the proceedings of a meeting of the Board shall be drawn up by the Registrar and circulated to all members of the Board present in India and the same along with any amendment suggested shall be placed
before the Board in its next meeting for confirmation and after the minutes are confirmed and signed by the Chairperson, they shall be recorded in the minutebook.
The minute book shall be kept open for inspection of the members of the Board and the Council at all times during office hours.
If a member of the Board fails to attend three consecutive meetings without leave of absence from the Board, he shall cease to be a member of the Board.
No matter concerned with finance shall be placed before the Board unless the same has been considered bythe Finance Committee.
No matter which should be first considered by the Building and Works Committee shall be placed before the Board' unless the same has been considered by the Building and works Committee after obtaining the administrative approval of the Board.
5. POWERSOF THE BOARD
In addition to the powers provided under sub-section (1) of section 13 of the Act the Board shall be empowered:
(i) to abolish, re-designate or change the nomenclature of any post in the institute;
(ii) to make, modify or cancel the statutes with the approval of the visitor from time to time:
Provided that the new Statute, additions or amendments of existing Statutes shall be applicable only after the assent of the visitor; pud
(iii) to make, modify and cancel all or any ordinances on recommendation of the Finance Committee or Senate of the !institute subject to the condition that making, modification and cancellation shall not be in contravention of theActand (or)Statutes.
AUTHENTICATION OF ORDERS OF THE BOARD 6. A
All orders and decisions of the Board shall be authenticated by the signature of the DirectororRegistrar or any person-authorised bythe Board in this behalf.
7. SENATE
The Senate shall meet as often as necessary but ordinarily not less than four times during a calendaryear.
(2)Meetings of the Senate shall be convened by the Chairman of the Senate eit s n s n ith of the members of the Senate.
(3)Requisition meeting shall be a special meeting to discuss only those items of agenda for which requisition is given and shall necessarily be chaired by t t t os the Chairman of the Senate on convenient date and time.
One third of the total number of members of the Senate shall form a quorum fora meeting of the senate.
(5)The Director shall preside over every meeting of the Senate
Provided that in absence of the Director, Deputy Director shall preside and in the absence of both the Director and the Deputy Director, the senior most professor present shall preside at the meeting.
A written notice of every meeting together with the agenda shall be circulated by the Registrar to the members of the Senate at least 3 week before the meeting:
Provided that the Chairman of the Senate may permit inclusion of any item forwhich due notice has not beengiven.
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-statute (6), the Director may call an emergency meeting of the Senate at short notice to consider urgent special issues.
(8)The ruling of the Chairman of the Senate with regard to all questions of procedure shall be final.
(9)The minutes of the proceedings of a meeting of the Senate shall be drawn up by the Registrar in consultation with Dean Academics and circulated to all the membersofsenatepresent inIndia:
Provided that any such minutes shall not be circulated if the Senate considers such circulation prejudicial to the interests of the Institute or the GovernmentofIndia.
(10) The minutes, along with amendments, if any, suggested shall be placed for confirmation at the next meeting of the Senate and after the minutes are confirmed and signed by the Chairman of the Senate, they shall be recorded in a minute book which shall be kept open for inspection of the members of the Senate, the Board and the Council at all times during office hours.
8. POWERSOFTHESENATE
Subject to the provisions ofthe Act, the Senate shall have the power to:
(i) frame and revise curricula and syllabi for the courses of studies for the various Departments and Centres;
(ii) make arrangements for the conduct of examinations; appointment of examiners, moderators, tabulators and other matters relating to the examinations;.
(iii) declare the results of the examinations or to appoint Committees or Officers to do so and to make recommendations to the - Board regarding on oe o o o ons ortitles;
(iv) appoint Advisory Committees or Expert Committees or both for the Departments or Centres of the institute to make recommendations on academic matters connected with the working of the Departments or Centres;
(v) appoint Committees from amongst the members of the Senate. other teachers of the Institute and experts from outside to advise on such specific andimportant academic matters as may be referred to any such Committee bythe Senate;
(vi) consider the recommendations of the Advisory Committees attached to various Departments or Centres and that of Expert and other Committees and take such action (including the making of recommendations to the Board) as warranted byeach case;
(vii) make periodical review of the activities of the Departments or Centres and take appropriate action (including the making of recommendations to the Board);
supervise the working of the Library of the Institute;
(viii)promote research and academic development or activity within the Institute and seek reports on such research or 2cademic development or activity from the personsengaged therein;
(ix) provide for the inspection of the class rooms, Laboratories, Library and the ResidentialHostels;
(x)plan co-curricular activities of the students of the Institute;
(xi)award stipends, scholarships, medals and prizes and makes otherawards ifaccordance with such conditions as may be attached to the awards;
(xii) make recommendations to the Board with regard to the creation or restructuring of Departments or Programmes or Centres and the abolition of existingDepartmentsorcentres thereof;
(xiii)make recommendations to the Board to disseminate knowledge through distance learning mode to various parts of the State or country or abroad; pue
(xiv)invite up to two student representatives during discussion of general nature not involving policy o~ disciplinary matters in the Senate meetings.
9. CHAIRMANOF THESENATE TO EXERCISE POWERS IN EMERGENCY
If, in the opinion of the Chairman of the Senate, any emergency has arisen which requires immediate action, he may take such action as he deems necessary and shall report the same for approval to the Senate in its next meeting.
10. FINANCE COMMITTEE
T o se e t om e te (the followingmembers, namely:
(i) the Chairperson Board of Governors, ex-officio Chairman;
(ii) the Director, ex-officio member;
(iii) Joint Secretary dealing with National Institutes of Technology or his nominee and Financial Advisor (Human Resource Development)or his Nomineemembers;
(iv) two persons nominated bythe Board from amongst its members; and
(v) the Registrar, ex-officio, Member-Secretary: Provided that in addition to the above, the Chairman may, in consultation with the Director, co-opt a member as and when found necessary.
The Finance Committee shall meet ordinarily four times in a year preferably before the meeting of the Board of Governors.
Three members of the Finance Committee shall form a quorum for a meeting of the Finance Committee.
The Chairman, shall preside over the meetings of the Finance Committee and in his absence, the Directorshall preside over the meetings.
The provisions in these First Statutes regarding notices of the meeting, inclusion ofitems in the agenda and confirmation of the minutes applicable to the meetings of the Board shall, so far as practicable may be, followed in connection with the meetings of the Finance Committee.
(6)A copy of the minutes of every meeting of the Finance Committee shall be placed before the Board.
(7)All financial proposals shall be placed before the Finance Committee prior to being placed before the Board for consideration and approval.
11. POWERS OF THEFINANCE COMMITTEE
The Finance Committee shall have powerto:-
(i) examine and scrutinize the annual budget of the Institute prepared by the Director and make recommendations to the Board; and
(ii) give its views and make its recommendations on any financial question affecting the Institute to the Board either on the initiative of the Board or of the Director, oron its own motion
12. BUILDING AND WORKS COMMITTEE
There shall be a Building and Works Committee for each of the Institute, consisting offollowing members, namely :-
(i) the Director, ex-officio Chairman;
(ii) one member nominated by the Central Government not below the
rank of Directoror Deputy Secretary (iii) one member nominated bythe Board of Governors (iv)Registrar, ex-officio, Member Secretary (v) Dean, planning and development or similar position- Member; and (vi) one expert each from Civil and Electrical Engineering Wing of Central or State Government or any autonomous bodyofrepute– Member. (2) The Building and Works Committee shall meet as often as necessary but ordinarilynot less than four times a year. (3) Three members shall form a quorum for a meeting of the Building and WorksCommittee. (4) The provisions in these Statutes regarding notice of meeting, inclusion of items in the agenda and confirmation of the minutes applicable to the meeting of the Board shall, as far as practicable may be followed in connection with meetings of the Building and Works Committee also. (5) A copy of the minutes of every meeting of the Building and Works Committee shall be placed before the Board.
13. POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE BUILDING AND WORKS COMMITTEE
(1) The Building and Works Committee shall, (i) under the directions of the Board shall carry on construction of all major works, after the necessary administrative approval and expenditure sanction from the Board; (ii) have the power to give the necessary administrative approval and expenditure sanction for minor works and works pertaining to repair and maintenance within the approved budgetary provision of the Institute: (iii) cause to prepare estimates of cost of buildings and other capital works, minorworks, repairs, maintenance and the like: (iv) be responsible for making technical scrutiny of the design, estimates and specifications of the material as may be considered necessary: (v) be responsible for enlistment of suitable contractors and acceptance of tenders and shall have the power to give directions for departmental works where necessary;
(vi) have the power to settle rates not covered by tender and settle claims and disputeswith contractors:
If in the opinion of the Chairman of the Building and Works Committee, any emergency has arisen which requires immediate action to be taken, he shall take such action and report the same to the Building and Works Committee and the Board at theirnext meeting.
The Building and Works Committee shall also perform such function and exercise such powers as may be entrusted by the Board from time to time.
14. POWERS OF THECHAIRPERSON, BOARD OF GOVERNORS
In addition to the powers provided in the Act, the Chairperson of the Board of Governors shall have the following powers, namely:-
(i) he shall have the power to fix, on the recommendations of the Selection Committee, the initial pay of an incumbent at a stage higher than the minimum of the scale in respect of posts to which the appointments can be madeby the Board undertheprovisions of theAct;
(ii) he shall have the power to send members of the staff except the Directorof the Institute for training or for a course of instruction. outside India subject to such terms and conditions as may be laid down bythe Board from time to time. Incidentally, the visit abroad by the Director shall be approved by the Chairman.National Institutes of Technology Council;
(iii) he shall execute the contract of service between the Institute and the Director or Deputy Director on behalf of the Central Government. but he shall notbe personallyliable of anything undersuch contract; and
Che o e s es ( ir aon o oon n on o nd ratification.
15. TRAVELLING ALLOWANCES OF MEMBERS OF THE AUTHORITIES OF INSTITUTE
Members of the Board and other authorities of the Institute and members of the Committees constituted under the Act or these Statutes or appointed by the Board and other authorities shall be entitled to traveling allowance, daily allowance and sitting fee for attending the meetings of the authorities and their Committees as laid down by the Board from time to time.
16. DEPARTMENTSANDCENTRES
The Institute shall be organized into such number of Departments and Centres to be known by such names as the Board may within the budgetary provision approve from time to time, on the recommendations of the Senate.
17. THE DIRECTORAND HIS POWERS
The Director of the Institute shall be appointed by the Visitor on contract basis on the recommendation of a Selection Committee constituted byhim consisting of atleast five members including the Chairman who are experts in the field of technical education with experience at national and internationallevel.
The Director shall be appointed for a period of five years and shall be governed by the terms and conditions of the Contract of Service entered into between the Institute and the Directorin form specified in Schedule-A.
Subject to the budget provisions made for the specific purpose, the Director shall have the power to incur expenditure in accordance with the procedure as may be laid down in the ordinances.
The Director shall have the power to appropriate funds with respect to different items constituting the recurring budget up to a limit specified for the Head of Department in the Central Government foreachitem:
Provided that such appropriation shall not involve any increase in the budget and any liabilityin future years:
Provided further that every such appropriation shall as soon as possible, be reported to the Board.
The Director shall have the power to write off irrecoverable losses up to a limit of ten thousand rupees and of irrecoverable value of store items lost orrendered unserviceable, due to normal wear and tearor obsolete up to a limit of twenty five thousand rupees subject to such stipulations as may be made by the Board from time to time.
(6)The Director shall have the power to donate obsolete equipment or store items, as identified by a Committee constituted for this purpose by the Director, to any educational institution in the vicinity of the Institute up to suchlimits as maybe decided bythe Board from time to time. (7) The Director, where he is the appointing authority, shall have the power to fix, on the recommendations of the Selection Committee, the initial pay of an incumbent at a stage higher' than the minimum, of the scale, but riot involving more that five increments, in respect of posts to which n n he provision of the Act or these statutes, (8)The Director shall have the power to employ Teaching Supporting Staff in the Laboratories, Technicians or Technical Instructors and Skilled Workmen, paid from contingencies from time to time, for notmore than one year on such remuneration as may be decided by the Board. (9)The Director shall have the power to send members of the staff for training or to attend course of instruction inside India subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified bythe ordinances. (10)The Director shall have the power to sanction temporary allocation of any building for any purpose other than that for which it was constructed. (11) If for any reason the Registrar is temporarily absent for a period not exceeding one month; the Director may take over or assign to any faculty member or member of staff of the Institute, any of the functions of the Registraras he deems fit: Provided that if at any' time the temporary absence; of the Registrar exceeds one month, the Board may, if it thinks fit, authorize the Director to take over or assign the function of the Registrar, for a period exceeding one month. (12)All contracts for and on behalf of the Institute except the one between the Institute and the Director shall when authorised by a resolution of the Board passed in that behalf be in writing and be expressed to be made in the name of the Institute and every such contract shall be executed on behalf of the Institute by the Director, but the Director shall not be
personally liable in respect of anything under such contract.
(13)The Director may, during his absence from headquarters, specifically authorise in writing the Deputy Director orin his absence, one of the Deans or the Senior most Professor present to sanction advances for travelling allowance, contingencies and medical treatment of the staff and sign and counter-sign bills onhis behalf.
The Director may, at his discretion constitute such committees, as he may consider appropriate for smooth functioning ofthe Institute.
In the event of the occurrence of any vacancy in the office of the Chairperson by reason of his death, resignation or otherwise or in the event of the Chairperson being unable to discharge his functions owing to absence, illness or any other cause, tile Director may discharge the functions assigned to the Chairperson undersection 16 of theAct.
The Director may, with the approval of the Board delegate any of his powers, authorities or responsibilities vested in him byvirtue of theAct and Statutes to one or more members of Academic or Administrative Staff of the Institute.
18. THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR
he sie t the he recommendation of the Selection Committee constituted by the Central Government with prior approval of the Visitor consisting of at least five members including the Chairman who are experts in the field of technical education with experience at National and International level.
(2)The appointment shall be for a period of three years initially which may be extended by two times for one year each on recommendation of the Board.
(3)The Deputy Director shall be governed by the terms and conditions of the Contract of Service entered into between the Institute and the Deputy Directorin the form specified in Schedule-B.
The Deputy Director shall have a1I the powers of the Director during the vacancyin the postofDirector of the Institute.
The Deputy Director shall assist the Director in academic and administrative work and in maintaining liaison with other institutions of higher learning and research, and also with industrial undertakings and otheremployers.
19. DEANS
The Institute shall establish not more than six Deanships.
The Director shall appoint the Deans with intimation to the Chairperson, Board of Governors.
h s o e e s aee
Only Professors or Associate Professors shall be eligible for becoming Deans.
Broad functions of Deans are enumerated in the Schedule 'C'.
20. HEADOFTHEDEPARTMENTORCENTRE
Each Department and Centre of the Institute shall be placed in charge of a Head who shall be selected by the Director. from amongst the Professors and Associate Professors of that Department or Centre:
Provided that if a Department or Centre has no Professor or Associate Professor, the Director may appoint an Assistant Professor of that Departmentor Centre to head the Department or Centre.
The Head of a Department or Centre shall hold his post for a term of two years.
Provided that after the expiry of his term of office, he shall continue to hold officetill the appointmentofhis successor:
/ Provided further that no person shall head a Department or Centre continuously for a period exceeding three years unless he IS specially appointed at least fora second term.
The Director may himself take temporary charge of a Departme.f1t or place it under the charge of the Deputy Director or a Professor from another Department for a period not exceeding six months.
The Head of Department shall be responsible for the entire working of the Departmentsubject to the general control and supervision of the Director.
The Head of Department shall be duty bound to see that the decisions of the authorities of the Institute and of Director are faithfully carried out. He shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Director orSenate.
(6)When appointment to the post of Head of Department or Centre becomes due, the Director shall ascertain the willingness of the persons eligible to b eps os s e e person byrotation from among eligible and willing persons.
Whenever it is proposed to deviate from the principle of rotation, such appointment shall be made only with the prior approval of the Chairperson, Board ofGovernors and for reasons to be recorded in writing and shall also be reported to the Senate and the Board, along with reasons for deviation, intheirnextmeetings.
21.REGISTRAR
The Registrar shall be appointed for a fixed term of not exceeding five years on deputation or contract basis.
The Registrar shall act as Secretary of the Board, Senate and such other Committees to which he may be required by the Statutes to act as such.
22. CLASSIFICATIONOF THE MEMBERS OF THESTAFF
Except in the case of employees paid from contingencies, the members of staff of the Institute shall be classified as under :-
Academic staff :- Director, Deputy Director, Professor, Associate Professor, Assistant Professor, Lecturer, Professor Training and Placement, and such other academic posts as may be decided by the Board from time to time;
Technical staff :- System Manager. System Analyst, Programmer, Librarian, Workshop Superintendent, Assistant Workshop Superintendent, Foreman, Technician, Instructor, Laboratory Assistant, Mechanic, Overseer, Technical Assistant, Draftsmen, and such other technical posts as may be decided by the Board from time totime; and
Administrative. and others staff :- Registrar, Deputy Registrar and Assistant Registrar, Accounts Officer, Audit Officer, Estate Officer, Executive Engineer. Assistant and Junior Engineer, Medical Officer, Medical Assistant, Horticultural Assistant/Officer, Office Superintendent, Security Officer, Stores Officer, Store Keeper, Office
Assistants, Data Entry Operators and such other Administrative and other staff as may be decided by the Board from time to time.
Posts classified as Academic staff shall be vacation posts only.
23. APPOINTMENTS
The posts at the Institute shall be filled by advertisement on all India basis:
Provided that the ratio between the Direct Recruitment and Promotion posts for posts other than that of the Director or the Deputy Director shall beaspertherecruitmentrules.
The reservation of posts shall be in accordance with the rules of the Central Government.
For the purposes of appointments, the rules applicable to of the Central Government employees shall apply.
The Selection Committees, for filling posts under the Institute (other than the posts on contract basis) by advertisement or by promotion from amongst the members of staff of the institute, shall be constituted in such ae nn manr or usn o e en en Department of Higher and Secondary Education, Government of India or Board from time to time byordinances.
(5)Selection Committees for filling up of posts under the Institute (other than on contract basis) by advertisement or by promotion from amongst the members of staff of the Institute shall be constituted in the following manner. namely:
(a) the Selection Committee for recruitment ofAcademic Staff (excluding the Director and the Deputy Director), or for promotion shall be as under:
Director or Deputy Director
-Chairman
Visitor's Nominee
Member
two nominee of the Board one being an expert, but other than a memberof the Board
one expert nominee of Senate from outside the institute
Member
Member
(5) Head of Department concerned
-Member
(for other than the post of Professor)
(b)The Selection Committee for Technical posts shall be as follows:
(1) DirectororDeputyDirector
-Chairman
(2)one Expertfrom outside the Institute
-member
(3) Nominee of Ministry of Human Resource
Development
-Member
(4)Concerned Head of Department
-Member
(5) Registrar
-Member
(c) The Selection Committee for Administrative and Ministerial Staff shall be as under:
(1) DirectororDeputyDirector
-Chairman
(2)One Expert from outsidetheInstitute
-Member
(3)Nominee of Ministry of Human Resource
Development
-Member
(4) Registrar
-Member
(d) The Selection Committee for Senior Administrative and other comparable pests carrying pay scale of Lecturer and above shall be asunder:-
(1) DirectororDeputyDirector
-Chairman
(2)one Expertfrom outside the Institute
-Member
(3)Nominee of Ministry of Human Resource
Development
-Member
(4)Nominee of Board
-Member
(5) Registrar
-Member
(6)The Registrar shall be substituted by another nominee of the Board in case the Selection is made for the Registrar or the equivalent post.
(17)
In the absence of the Deputy Director, the Director may nominate any member of the staff of the Institute to be the member of the Selection Committees in his place.
(8)Where a post is to be filled on contact basis or by invitation, the Board may constitute such Adhoc Selection Committee, as circumstances of each casemayrequire.
(9)Where a post is to be filled by promotion from amongst the members of the l o ot o tshe procedure for the same shall be as specified by ordinances.
(10)Notwithstanding anything contained in these Statutes, the Board shall have the power to make appointments of persons having special skill or knowledge to suit the emergent need of the department(s) or centre(s).
If the post is to be filled by advertisement, the Registrar shall advertise the terms and conditions of the post and the screening committee for the purpose of short listing the eligible and most desirable candidates and shall screen all applications received within the date specified in the advertisement.
(12)At the time of interview, the Selection Committee shall examine credentials of all candidates who have been called for the interview, interview the eligible candidates and recommend the appointment of the most suitable candidate to the competent authority for approval.
(13)The recommendations of the Selection Committee shall remain valid for a period of one year from the date of interview and if for any reason the recommendations are not approved by the competent authority or appointment orders not issued after the approval of recommendations within the said period of one year, the recommendations shall lapse and freshadvertisement shall beissued.
(14)No act or proceeding of any Selection Committee shall be called in question on the ground merely of the absence of any member or members of.the Selection Committee.
(15)Unless otherwise provided for under these Statutes, the Selection Committee constituted for the purpose of making recommendations for appointment to a post shall continue to exercise its functions in relation to that post till the appointment is made against that post.
All appointments made at the Institute shall be reported to the Board at its next meeting.
s en ord e e e o e e(re Career Progression (ACP) shall be considered by the Departmental Promotion Committees before any promotion or up-gradation is recommended.
(18) The Departmental Promotion Committee shall be as follows:
(18) The Departmental Promotion Committee shall be as follows | 23. APPOINTMENTS: 1. Director orDeputy Director | -Chairman
(18) The Departmental Promotion Committee shall be as follows | 23. APPOINTMENTS: 2. Concerned Head of Department | -Member
(18) The Departmental Promotion Committee shall be as follows | 23. APPOINTMENTS: 3. Head of Department from other Department | -Member
(18) The Departmental Promotion Committee shall be as follows | 23. APPOINTMENTS: 4. Registrar | -Member
24. GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SERVICE OF PERMANENT EMPLOYEES
Permanent employees of the Institute shall be governed by the following terms and conditions:
(i) Subject to the provisions of the Act and the Statutes, all appointments to posts under the Institute shall be made on probation for a period of one year after which period the appointee, if confirmed, shall continue to hold his office subject to the provisions of the Act and the Statutes, till the end of th e mi eid i i i ing posts, for technical non-teaching and ministerial and administrative posts as the case may be:
Provided that the appointing authority shall have the power to extend the period of probation of any employee of the Institute for such periods as mayit may deem fit.
(ii) The age of superannuation shall be as specified for various classes and categories ofthe employees ofthe institute bythe Central Government.
(iii) The employees of the Institute shall be entitled to allowances in addition to pay, as admissible to Central Government Employees.
(iv) The employees of the Institute shall be entitled to reimbursement of medical expenses incurred on themselves and theirfamilies as per Central Civil Services (MedicalAttendance)Rules, 1944.
(v) The employees of the Institute shall be governed by the Central Civil Services (Conduct)Rules, 1964.
e (he new pension scheme announced by the Government of India.
(vii) The application of the employees of the Institute shall be forwarded for employment outside the Institute only three times in a year in accordance with the procedure specified in Schedule-D.
(viii)The employees of the Institute will be entitled to Leave Travel Concession (LTC) as admissible to Central GovernmentEmployees.
v e e d e e he (ie Institute as is admissible to the Central Government Employees.
25. CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PERMANENT EMPLOYEES
The code of conduct for employees shall be made by each Institute in consultation with the Central Government.
26. SUSPENSION, PENALITIES, DISCIPLINARYPROCEEDINGS
The Director may place a member of the staff appointed at the Institute under suspension :-
(i) Where a disciplinary proceeding against him is contemplated or is pending;
Jo
(ii) Where a case against him in respect of any criminal offence is under investigation, inquiryor trial:
Provided that where a member of the staff is detained in custody, whether on a criminal charge or otherwise, for a period exceeding forty-eight hours, such member of the staff shall be e o o d e e o en authority under suspension with effect from the date on which he was so detained.
During the period of suspension, the member of the staffshall be entitled to the following payments, namely :-
(a) a subsistence allowance at an amount equal to the Leave Salary
which the staff member would have drawn had he been on leave on half pay and Dearness Allowance, if admissible on the basis of such leave salary: Provided that where the period of suspension exceeds six months, the Subsistence Allowance shall be asfollows : (i) the amount of subsistence allowance may be increased by a suitable amount not exceeding fifty percent of the subsistence allowance admissible during the period of the first six months, if, in the opinion of the Competent Authority the period of suspension has been prolonged for reasons to be recorded in writing, not directly attributable to the employee concerned; (ii) the amount of subsistence allowance may be reduced by a
suitable amount, not exceeding fifty percent of the subsistence allowance admissible during the period of the first six months, if, in the opinion of the Competent Authority, the period of suspension has been prolonged due to reasons, to be recorded in. writing, directlyattributable to the employee.
(b) The rate of dearness allowance will be based on the increased or as the case may be the decreased amount of subsistence allowance admissible undersub-statute2.
(c) Any other compensatory allowance admissible from time to time on the basis of pay of which the staff member was .in receipt of on the date of suspension subject to the fulfillment of other conditions laid down for the drawl of such allowances.
No payment shall be made unless the staff member furnished a certificate hn unos usn u o s n or vocation.
(4)The Board of Governors may, if it is of the opinion, that the circumstances of the case do not warrant the suspension of the member of the staff, revokesuchorder.
-heg g g g eg)
(i) censure;
(ii) withholding of increments orpay;
(iii) withholding of promotion;
(iv) recovery from his pay of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to the Institute by negligence or breach of orders;
(v)reduction to lower grade or post or to a lower time-scale of pay, or to a lower stage in a time-scale for a period of three years without cumulative effect and not adversely affecting his pension (where ever applicable);
(vi) compulsoryretirement;
(vii) removal from service which shall not be a disqualification for future employment underthe Institute;
(vii) dismissal from service, which shall ordinarily be a disqualification for future employmentunder theInstitute;
o o ir or g on (e specified at (v) to (viii) above shall be passed by any authority subordinate e a e held and the member of the staff has been given reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in this regard.
No order imposing on any member of the staff any of the penalties specified at (i) to (iv) above shall be passed by any authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed and unless the member of the staff con o n o n n g he appointing authority:
Provided that the provisions of sub-statute (5) and (6) shall not apply tothefollowing:-
(a) where an employee is dismissed or removed or reduced in rankon the ground of conduct which has led to his conviction on a criminal charge;
(b) where the authority empowered to dismiss or.remove the person orto reduce him in rank is satisfied that for some reason to be recorded by that authority in writing, it is not reasonably practicable to give to that person such opportunity; or
(c) where the Visitor is satisfied that in the interest of the security of the State, it is not expedient to give to that person such opportunity.
(8)If, in respect of such person as aforesaid, any question arises whether it is reasonably practicable to give to an opportunity referred to under clause
(b), the decision thereon of the authority empowered to dismiss or remove such person or to reduce himin rank, as the case may be, shall be, final. Am e ey as yby the Director against him shall be entitled to prefer an appeal to Board of Governors against the order and there shall be no further appeal from the decisionoftheBoard. (10) Amember of the staffaggrieved by any orderpassed bythe Board inflicting a penalty on him shall be entitled to prefer an appeal to the Visitor against suchorder. (11) No appeal shall be entertained by the Board of Governors or the Visitor, as the case may be, unless it is made within a period of three months from the date on which memberof the staff aggrieved by such order receives a copy of the orderappealed against: pro a a a ter the expiry of the said period, if it is satisfied that the appellant has sufficientcause for not submitting the appeal in time. i y y uy y (ies) may, of its own motion or otherwise call for the records of the case from the Directoror the Board, as the case may be, review any order passed in such a case and pass such orders asit deems fit. (13) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Statute, the Visitor may, on his own motion or otherwise after calling for the records of the case, review any orderwhichis made under this Statute, and (a)confirm, modify orset asidethe order; (b) impose any penalty or set aside, reduce, confirm or enhance the penaltyimposed bythe order; (c) remit the case to the authority which made the order or to any other authority directing such further action or enquiry as he considers properin the circumstances ofthe case, or (d)pass such other orders as he deemsfit: Provided that an order imposing or enhancing a penalty shall not be passed unless the person concerned has been given an opportunity of making any representation which he may wish to
make against such enhanced penalty.
(23)
