SOURCE_URL: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1C66ZFjbqJjVcCvO0lGXJqen978hiImr2/view
TITLE: Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology Nagpur Signs MoU with Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas, New Delhi to Promote Vedic Mathematics
FETCHED: 2024-09-13
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/index.php/category/news-events
---
Document: Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology Nagpur Signs MoU with Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas, New Delhi to Promote Vedic Mathematics (dated 2024-09-13)
Title: Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology Nagpur Signs MoU with Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas, New Delhi to Promote Vedic Mathematics
[Nagpur, Maharashtra] - In a significant step towards reviving and promoting the ancient Indian mathematical system, VNIT Nagpur signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas, New Delhi. The MoU aims to increase the contemporary relevance of the principles presented by Vedic scholars in the field of mathematics in the Indian knowledge tradition and its practice in technical institutions so that an understanding of traditional knowledge along with modern knowledge is developed.
Vedic Mathematics, an ancient Indian mathematical system, is known for its unique techniques and ability to simplify complex calculations. It is believed to enhance problem-solving skills, logical thinking, and creativity. By incorporating Vedic Mathematics into the curriculum, the institute hopes to not only improve students' mathematical abilities but also foster a deeper appreciation for India's rich heritage. Also, to find ways for possible collaboration in research and training of a wide range of stakeholders working in the field of Vedic Mathematics.
The two institutions shall exchange research publications and conduct other activities like exposing students to achievements in the Indian Knowledge tradition, Promoting collaborative research in areas of mutual interest, Development of short-term academic and training programmes, and Participation in jointly organised academic meetings, seminars and workshops. Faculty members of Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology and experts of Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas will jointly develop curriculum for academic programmes, and new courses.
Professor Prem Lal Patel, Director of VNIT Nagpur, welcomed Dr. Atul Kothari, Secretary of SSUN New Delhi. They discussed the potential benefits of Vedic Mathematics in time-critical engineering applications. Professor Patel suggested conducting a national-level workshop for students to enhance their understanding of Vedic mathematics.
Dr. Atul Kothari, Secretary of SSUN New Delhi, discussed the integration of the Indian knowledge system into NEP 2020. He emphasized the value of Vedic mathematics in solving engineering problems. He shared his experiences promoting the Indian knowledge system and Vedic mathematics, with the goal of establishing India as a global leader in mathematics. He explained how this MoU would contribute to spreading India's rich heritage and traditional knowledge in the field of Vedic Mathematics."
Dr. Vishnu Pratap Singh, Assistant Professor, Department of Mathematics is working as a coordinator for this MoU. From Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas, Umesh K. Bhonsale is working as a coordinator. All the Deans, Associate Deans and HoDs were also present during the signing of MoU.
This initiative is expected to have a far-reaching impact on India's education system and contribute to the nation's overall development. By promoting Vedic Mathematics, the institute is not only preserving a valuable part of India's cultural heritage but also empowering students with a powerful tool for problemsolving and critical thinking.
