SOURCE_URL: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1SnkOm-J3RfvNi3zXOB3Ek1L5JT9p9YMj/view
TITLE: Rupa Rahul Bajaj Scholarship for Women in Engineering
FETCHED: 2025-09-18
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/section/academics/notice/
---
Document: Rupa Rahul Bajaj Scholarship for Women in Engineering (dated 2025-09-18)
Rupa Rahul Bajaj Scholarship
For Women In Engineering
Empowering Women Engineers to Lead the Future of Manufacturing
Financial Support of up to ₹8 Lakh per Student
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
Meritorious female students enrolled in the select top 40 engineering colleges
Applicable Streams:
Mechanical · Electrical · Electronics & Communication
Industrial/Production · Automobile · Mechatronics
Instrumentation · Material Sciences · Metallurgy
Minimum 75% score in Class 12th
HIGHLIGHTS
Merit-driven & Aspirational
100% Women Focused
Exclusive to Core Engineering Disciplines
Holistic Development through Industry Exposure, Mentorship & Life Skills
Backed by Bajaj Auto's Legacy of Engineering Excellence
Dear Sir,
Greetings from Bajaj Auto Ltd.
We are delighted to introduce our flagship CSR initiative - the Rupa Rahul Bajaj Scholarship for Women in Engineering . This prestigious program is designed to empower 500 bright and meritorious women pursuing engineering education in core technical disciplines, with the aim of strengthening the pipeline of women professionals in India's manufacturing and allied sectors.
The scholarship is exclusively offered to students who have secured admission in one of the top NIRF-ranked engineering institutions in this academic year[2025], these top ranked engineering colleges are carefully assessed and identified. Each selected scholar will receive fi nancial assistance of up to 8 lakhs , distributed over four years of study.
Beyond financial support, this scholarship program is a holistic development model that includes:
Industry exposure
Mentorship opportunities
Life skills training
Exposure to new age manufacturing technologies
This ensures that scholars are not only equipped to complete their education but are also prepared to build successful careers in the engineering and manufacturing sectors.
Eligibility Criteria:
Female students admitted through competitive examinations to one of the identified top 40 engineering colleges.
Applicable streams: Mechanical, Electrical, Electronics & Communication, Industrial/Production, Automobile, Mechatronics, Instrumentation, Material Sciences, and Metallurgy.
Minimum score of 75% in 12th standard.
We are pleased to inform you that your institution is among the top 40 institutions we have identified for this program. We request your support in disseminating information and encouraging eligible students to apply for this scholarship program. The top 500 scholars will be selected through a rigorous ranking process based on applications received from across India.
In this regard, we would like to connect with you or your team virtually or in person to share more details and explore a partnership with your prestigious institution. I have copied my colleague, Ms. Nabigha Gillani (Phone: +91 8368724499 ), who leads this program, in CC. If there are any queries, either of us will happy to connect and clarify.
With warm regards, Sudhakar Gudipati VP CSR, Bajaj Auto Ltd. +91 9223212012
www.bajajauto.com DISCLAIMER: This message, including any attachments may contain proprietary, confidential and privileged information for the sole use of the intended recipient(s), and is protected by law. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender immediately and destroy all copies of the original message and attachments, if any. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure, dissemination, forwarding, printing or copying of this email or any action taken in reliance on this e-mail is strictly prohibited and may be unlawful. Bajaj Auto and / or its group companies reserve the right to record, monitor, and inspect all email communications through its internal and external networks. Your messages can be subject to such lawful supervision as Bajaj Auto and / or its group companies deem necessary in order to protect their information, interests and reputation. Bajaj Auto and / or its group companies prohibit and may take steps to prevent their information systems from being used to view, store or forward offensive or discriminatory material. If this message contains such material, please report it to abuse@bajajauto.co.in. Please ensure you have adequate virus protection before you open or detach any documents from this transmission. Bajaj Auto and / or its group companies do not accept any liability for viruses.
