SOURCE_URL: https://vnit.ac.in/section/tnp/wp-content/uploads/2025/08/Electronics-Communication-Engg_Brochure_2025-26.pdf
TITLE: ECE_Brochure_2025-26
FETCHED: 2025-08-01
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/section/tnp/
---
Document: ECE_Brochure_2025-26 (dated 2025-08-01)
Department of Electronics and
Communication 2025-2026
Placement office - 4th Floor, New Academic Block South Ambazari Road, Nagpur, Maharashtra 440010 Email - tepvnit_ngp@vnit.ac.in tepvnit@gmail.com Contact - 0712-2801353, +91 9422802995
ABOUT US MISSION
To be the epitome of academic rigour, flexible to accommodate every student and faculty for basic, current and future technologies in
Electronics and Communication Engineering.
Strengthening and providing support in sustaining a healthy society by improving the quality of life through the application of technology.
VISION
The Department endeavors to facilitate state of the art technical education in the field of Electronics and Communication Engineering by infusing scientific temper in the students leading towards research and to grow as centre of excellence in the field. The vision of the department is to provide education to students that is directly applicable to problems and situations encountered in real life and thus foster a successful career. The department aims to provide the best platform to students and staff for their growth.
ELECTRONICS& COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING 'PG ANNEX'
From HOD's Desk:
Welcome to the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, VNIT Nagpur. The department started with an intake of 30 in 1984.
Subsequently, the intake increased progressively, and the current intake for the UG program of B.Tech ECE is 125, and that of the PG program, namely M.Tech in Communication System Engineering, is 25. The department also offers PhD and Post-Doctoral programs. The department
remains the most sought after within the first two choices. The department has a good number of highly qualified and experienced faculties. The average experience of the faculty is 15 years, and the Professors have experience of 25 to 35 years. The department has produced GATE/CAT toppers for various years and Institute Visvesvaraya Medalists for many years. The alumni are highly placed, with 5% being entrepreneurs. The IPR of the department is very good in terms of faculty research publications with high citations in Google Scholar and SCIindexed Journals and granted patents. There are always a good number of externally funded or sponsored research projects ongoing. The department has a very active and fruitful institute-industry interaction.
Dr. Ashwin Kothari Professor and Head of the Department The department has the following centers of excellence: 1) Center of Excellence in Embedded Systems established with grants from World Bank TEQIP funds. The center continues to train aspiring students with evening training programs. 2) CoE of AI 3) 5G LAB Center 4) CoE of EMC- EMI. The department works in upcoming and niche areas of electronics and communication engineering like 5G/6G, RF and Antennas, Signal Processing, AI/ML, Optoelectronics and Photonics, IoT, Automotive Electronics, Sensors and Instrumentation, Microelectronics, Biomedical Signal and Image Processing, Image Processing and Pattern Recognition.
The department lays emphasis on clear fundamental concepts and applications of engineering through mini and major projects and internships. It is based on NEP 2020 and is accommodating for slow as well as fast learners. The annual external academic audit is a quality control exercise to keep abreast with technology and academic standards. Both the UG and PG programs are accredited for six years. The labs in the department have the latest equipment and students are made fully conversant with it with a considerable hands-on component. On the consultancy front, the department is growing now. The synergy of the department is very high. The department also offers an online PG program of M.Tech in Applied AI for working professionals. We are very confident that our students will excel in their performance wherever they go.
- Dr. Ashwin Kothari
STUDENT ACTIVITIES
Department of Electronics and communication provides an environment that nurtures leaders in addition to sound engineers. Notwithstanding the tight academic schedule that students have, they manage to indulge in various extra- curricular activities. Students from our department manage host of activities ranging from interdepartment competitions and national level festivals to managing facilities like messing and hostel infrastructure. These activities provide multitude of holistic improvement platforms for students to hone their technical and managerial skills, which are imperative for one to excel in his/her workplace. Prof. Seb University
Course Coordinator Dr. Deep Gupta Dr. Saugata Sinha Dr. Deep Gupta
ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION DEPARTMENT OF VISVESVARAYA NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY NAGPUR
OUR LABS
OUR LABS
STUDENT ACHIEVEMENTS
Undergraduate students Vedant Lokhande and Praneeth Mangala (ECE Department, VNIT Nagpur) showcased their project titled 'Design and Implementation of MOLECULAR COMMUNICATION (MC) Test Bed' at the National Conference on Communications (NCC 2025), held at IIT Delhi from March 6-9, 2025.
NCC is one of India's most prestigious conferences in Communications, Signal Processing, and Networks. The project was developed under the mentorship of Dr. Anamika Singh and reflects VNIT's emphasis on fostering undergraduate research in emerging domains such as molecular communication.
Our undergraduate students Jinam Sancheti, Anshul Patil, and Chandan Yadav from VNIT Nagpur showcased their FPGA-based controller for an indigenously developed Reconfigurable Intelligent Surface (RIS).
We were honored to have Prof. Yonina Eldar, a global pioneer in signal processing, visit our demonstration and share her encouraging feedback: "Impressive work!". She motivated the team to continue working hard.
STUDENT ACHIEVEMENTS
Students from the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, VNIT Nagpur, have delivered an exceptional performance in GATE 2025, securing top national ranks and reaffirming the department's academic excellence.
Top Performers: · Pujitha Pydi - Rank 25 · Abhishek Paithankar - Rank 39 · Amogh Joshi - Rank 125 · Bhumik Hemant Patil - Rank 148 · Penumarthi Gowtham Kumar - Rank 469 · Sai Varshit - Rank 645
These results reflect the students' dedication and consistent effort, supported by strong academic mentorship and a competitive learning environment at VNIT. The achievement highlights the institute's commitment to preparing students for national-level examinations and advanced career opportunities.
Faculty Acheivements
Electro Magnetic Interference and Electro Magnetic Compilance with a budget of 2.5 crore is in progress under the guidance of Dr.Ashwin Kothari, Dr. Abhay Gandhi, Dr.Joydeep Sengupta, Dr.Neeraj Rao, Dr.Arvind Kumar.
Under the supervision of Dr.Prabhat Sharma and Dr.Anamika Singh Bharat 5G Laboratory having budget of 1 crore is under progress.
Center for Artificial Intelligence (1.2 crore) has 56 computing systems with GPUs and 1 High -end system with 128GB RAM and 128GB GPU.Associated faculties are Dr. Kishor Bhurchandi and Dr.Deep Gupta
CoE in Combedded Systems( 9crore) is coordinated by Dr.Ashwin Kothari .
Faculty Acheivements
Dr. Arvind Kumar from the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, VNIT Nagpur, represented the institute at the prestigious 19th European Conference on Antennas and Propagation (EuCAP 2025) in Stockholm, Sweden. His contributions highlight VNIT's strong presence in cutting-edge research on antenna systems and nextgeneration wireless technologies.
Dr. Deep Gupta (ECE Department, VNIT Nagpur) is leading an ICMR-funded research project with a total sanctioned amount of ₹65.83 lakhs, of which ₹56.93 lakhs is allocated to VNIT. The project focuses on AI-assisted detection and grading of colorectal cancer. Co-investigators include Dr. Ankit Bhurane and Dr. Vipin Kamble from VNIT's ECE Department, along with two medical professionals from AIIMS Nagpur. The project reflects a significant interdisciplinary collaboration between engineering and medical sciences to address critical challenges in cancer diagnostics.
Faculty Acheivements
Many faculties have received sponsered projects from agencies such as ISRO ,SERB ,SPARC grant , MEITY .
Many faculties such as Dr Prabhat Sharma, Dr arvind kumar have received international fellowships
Some faculties are rated as top 2% researcher.
Dst sire fellowship to Dr.Arvind Kumar.
For more details please visit departmental website: https://vnit.ac.in/engineering/ece/
Electronics and Communication Engineering B.Tech
TECHNICAL SKILLS
C, C++, Java, Python, R, Kotlin , VHDL , Verilog, MATLAB
Machine Learning and Data Science:
Python (Pandas, NumPy, Scikit-learn, TensorFlow, Keras, PyTorch) Deep Learning, Neural Networks, AI Tools
DATABASES :
SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, NoSQL, Firebase
WEB DEVELOPMENT:
HTML, CSS (Tailwind, Bootstrap), JavaScript (React, Node.js, Express)
Web & Mobile Development : Flutter, React Native , Django, Android studio, RESTAPIS Version Control and Containerization: Git, Github , Docker
Security: Cryptography, Steganography, Web Exploitation, Digital Forensics
Office and Productivity: POWER BI, Microsoft Office(Advance excel) , LaTeX , Canva, Adobe (Photoshop, Illustrator), Google Analytics, Tableau
Electronics and Communication Engineering B.Tech
ENGINEERING DESIGN:
Embedded Systems: Arduino IDE, Embedded C, VHDL, Verilog, FPGA, RTL Design and Verification,Digi XBee Modules.
Analog and Digital Circuit Design: CMOS Design, PCB Design, Antenna Design and Analysis, CST Studio Suite
Signal Processing and Communication: Digital Communication, Wireless Communication, Audio/Image/Video Processing, MATLAB/Simulink, NetSim tool .
CAD/CAM: AutoCAD, Fusion 360, SolidWorks
Robotics and Automation: Arduino IDE,ROS, Gazebo, PyBullet, Issac Gym, IOT Embedded Development , Smart systems
Control Systems: Model Based System Design, Optimization
PCB Design Software: Eagle, Altium Designer, KiCad, EASYEda
VLSI Design Tools:
Quartus, ModelSim , Xilinx, Cadence, Synopsys, Mentor Graphics , ngspice
Electronics and Communication Engineering B.Tech
COURSES
Optimal Systems
Power Electronic Devices and Circuits
Communication Networks
Fundamentals of Information Theory
Satellite Communication
Advanced Microprocessors and Interfacing
Biomedical Signal Processing
Adaptive Signal Processing
Radar Engineering
Advanced Sensors and Instrumentation
Computer Architecture & Organization
CMOS Design
Automotive Electronics
Concepts in Operating Systems
Digital Image Processing
Advanced Digital Signal Processing
Data Structures and Algorithms
Linear Network Theory
Electronic Devices
Signals and Systems Analysis Linear
Algebra & Application Numerical
Methods and Probability Theory
Digital Signal Processing Analog
Circuit Design Analog
Communication Embedded Systems
Measurement & Instrumentation
Wave Guides and Antennas
Device Modeling
Digital Communication
Digital Hardware Design
RF & Microwave Engineering
Machine Learning with Python
Wireless Communication
Wireless Sensor Network
Electronics and Communication Engineering B.Tech
Programming Languages & Coding platform :
Antenna and circuit designing software: Cadence AWR, CST Microwave Studio, Proteus, Lab View
Network Analysis Tools : Wireshark, Cisco Packet Tracer , NetSim Tools
Analog & Digital Communication , Digital circuit kit , FPGA , Embedded System kits
Advanced Technological Competence:
Internet of Things, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Deep Learning
Model-Based Design and Simulation Software MATLAB Simulink
Electronics and Communication Engineering B.Tech
COURSES
Signal Processing for Communication System Statistical Signal Analysis
Information Theory and Coding Wireless Channels
Computational Electromagnetism
Fuzzy Logic and Neural Networks Communication Theory
Converged Communication Networks Radio Frequency Circuit Design
Electromagnetic Interference and Compatibility Topics In Communication Systems
Photonic Integrated Circuit and Communication System
Electronics and Communication Engineering PHD
AREAS OF SPECIALSATION & WORK OF INTEREST
Our ECE department proudly presents PhD candidates excelling in:
No-Reference Video Quality Assessment
Medical Image Processing
NOMA, CR, AmBC, RIS, Optimization
Molecular & Wireless Communications
Specialized Expertise
RF & Microwave Engineering: Frequency Selective Surfaces, EMI/EMC, SI/PI, Microwave NDE, Antennas, RF Design.
Ambient Backscattering & RIS
Video Processing & Computer Vision: Denoising, Deep Learning, NLP.
EEG Signal Processing: Fatigue classification.
Speech Processing
Machine Learning & AI: Matlab for Signal & Image Processing.
IoT & WSNs
Deep Learning for CAD
Faculty Corner
Professors
Dr. Ashwin Kothari
Dr. A. S. Gandhi
Areas Of Specialization :
Communication, Signal processing, Rough Sets, Cognitive Radio, Reconfigurable Antennas Commbeded Systems: Hybridization Of Communication and Embedded Systems.
Areas Of Specialization: Wireless communication, RF circuits and systems, Computer networks
Dr. K. M. Bhurchandi
Areas Of Specialization:
Embedded Systems, Image Processing
Faculty Corner
Associate Professor
Dr. Vishal R. Satpute
Areas Of Specialization:
Image Processing, Conputer Vision, Signal Processing, Cryptography, Bio Metrics
Faculty Corner
Assistant Professors
Dr. Saugata Sinha
Areas Of Specialization:
Image Processing, Pattern Recognition, Medical Imaging. Signal Processing.
Dr. Pradnya H. Ghare
Areas Of Specialization:
Body Area Networks, Wireless Sensors Network,
Analog Circuit Design,EEG Signal Processing
Dr. Prabhat Kumar Sharma
Areas of Specialization
aspects Molecular of and Physical Layer Communications, Communications
Dr. Deep Gupta
Areas Of Specialization:
Signal & Image Processing, Medical Image Analysis, Machine Learning, Computer Vision, AI in Healthcare, Food Image Analysis
Dr. Joydeep Sengupta
Areas Of Specialization: Communication & Microwave.
Wireless Biological
Faculty Corner
Assistant Professors
Dr. Neeraj Rao
Areas Of Specialization:
Antennas and Microwave
Dr. K. Surender
Areas Of Specialization:
Control and Instrumentation
Dr. Anamika Singh
Areas Of Specialization: Silicon Photonics Integrated Circuits, High Frequency Antennas, Optical Biosensors, Optical Communications
Dr. Ankit A. Bhurane
Areas Of Specialization:
Signal Image and Video Processing, Communications, Embedded Systems
Dr. Punitkumar Bhavsar
Areas Of Specialization:
Human-in-the-loop cyber physical systems
Dr.Praveen Pawar
Areas Of Specialization : Wireless
Communications
Faculty Corner
Assistant Professors
Dr. Amit Agarwal
Areas Of Specialization:
Wireless Communication, Optical Wireless Communication, Performance analysis of amplitude constrained channel, Energy Efficient transceivers design, Quantum Communication, Next generation of wireless systems.
ialization
Dr. Arvind Kumar
Areas Of Specialization:
Substrate Integrated Waveguide (SIW) Based Antennas, Millimeter wave and THz Technologies
Dr.Vipin Kamble
Areas Of Specialization:
Signal, Image and Video Processing
