SOURCE_URL: https://drive.google.com/file/d/15TzwgqdqoM7Wzkhdq7kjlwKENv4sNxDy/view
TITLE: LR Mundra Memorial Scholarship-2025-26 (Master’s and Doctoral Programme )
FETCHED: 2025-08-19
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/section/academics/notice/
---
Document: LR Mundra Memorial Scholarship-2025-26 (Master’s and Doctoral Programme ) (dated 2025-08-19)
Saini Charitable Education Trust (Regd.)
Saini Bhawan Ropar (Rupnagar)-140001, Punjab (India), Ph.01881-220078
E-mail:sainibhawanrpr@gmail.com Website: www.sainibhawan.org
No SCEC/Scholarship/RPR/ 585-635 Dated - 14-08-2026 To The Director/Head Of Institute. Subject :- L.R.Mundra Memorial Scholarship- 2025-26. Respected Sir, Jai Hind ! It is submitted that as per the will of the Donor of this scholarship, Saini Charitable Education Trust (Regd.) Ropar Punjab will provide a Scholarship to the students of Saini Community worth appx. Rs. 25000/- PM (Rs.- 300000/- annually) during session (2025-26) for pursuing full- fledged postgraduate, Doctoral or postdoctoral studies. Enclosed please Find instruction she et regarding 'L.R.Mundra Memorial Scholarship with all detail. It's my humble request to your goodself to put the same on the website/email/Notice Board of your institute for the information of eligible students. Trust will be highly thankful to you for this kindness. Thanking You. Yours Sincerely Encl: As stated (Rajinder Saini) President, SCET Mob. 9872220400
L.R.Mundra Memorial Scholarship for the year 2025-26
Saini Charitable Education Trust (Regd.),Saini Bhawan Rupnagar,Panjab
Applications on the prescribed performa available in the office & on the website-www.sainibhawan.org are invited from the eligible candidates up to 20.09.2025 for the award of L.R.Mundra Memorial Scholarship for the year 2025-26.The candidates of age up to 35 years belonging to Saini Bradri residing in Panjab, Haryana. Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh (U.T) and Delhi, pursuing Postgraduate or higher studies in the field of Technology, Science, Management, Commerce and Massmedia in a Prestigious National Institute are eligible to apply.The amount of scholarship is approx. Rs.25000/p.m. (Rs. 300000/- annually). The selection will be done by a five-member committee on merit basis.
For more detail ContractMob. 9815636079, 9872220400, 9463588741, 9417602835 & 9888856369 or website-www.sainibhawan.org
E-mail:sainibhawanrpr@gmail.com
Sh. L. R. Mundra Memorial Scholarship
Introduction : Sh. L. R. Mundra, a retired Asst. Commissioner of Delhi Police, instituted a scholarship in his name'L. R. Mundra Scholarship' under the aegis of Saini Charitable Education Trust (Regd.) Ropar to promote higher studies in renowned/premium Indian institutes. The amount of Rs. Seventy lakh, in the form of a corpus, donated by Sh. L. R. Mundra has been deposited in a bank account in the name of Saini Charitable Education Trust (Regd.) Ropar. The interest accruing from the stated corpus , put in the form of a 'Term Deposit', is used to fund the scholarships after meeting sundry expenses. Saini Charitable Education Trust (Regd.) Ropar is an established organisation disbursing scholarships to the deserving students after careful scrutiny of the submitted applications by the students. Purpose
: The primary purpose of this programme is to promote higher education by providing scholarships to qualified scholars/students that may facilitate them to pursue their education with further intent that after the completion of their higher education, they may serve the society in a more valuable way.
Eligibility Criteria : The grace of this scholarship programme lies in its inherent transparency. The scholarship is open to:
Scholars, academics and mid-career professionalsup to 35 years of age pursuing fulltime higher education in any area and field of study irrespective of the selected course or training programme, or a fullfledged Master's, Doctoral or Post -doctoral programme.
Scholars pursuing higher studies in prestigious institutions in the field of science, technology, commerce, management and mass media will be preferred.
Any individual from Saini Bradri, irrespective of socio-economic background or gender, and a domicile of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi & Chandigarh.
Selection Committee: Selection Committee Panel will consist of five members- 3 exofficio members, viz., the Patron/Chairman or his Nominee, the President & the General Secretary of the Trust, and 2 more members will be inducted for one academic year with the aid and advice of 3 ex-officio members.
Application Procedure:
Application for the scholarship will be invited by the Trust through leading Indian newspapers for the following academic year.
The application is to be made on a prescribed form available at Trust office.
The prescribed form can be obtained either personally or on payment of an application fee of Rs.100/- by cash or by sending a request by a 'Money Order' or 'Demand Draft' in favour of 'Saini Charitable Education Trust (Regd.) Ropar' mentioning the applicant's name, contact number and address to enable the Trust to post the form.
Shortlisted candidates will be called in for a mandatory personal interview, to be conducted by the Selection Committee.
Submission Criteria:
Candidates applying for the scholarship should already have secured admission to the university, College or institution they plan to join. The final award is subject to their securing admission in the educational institute.
The Application duly recommended by the Head of the Institution where he/she is studying is to be submitted to the President, Saini Charitable Education Trust (Regd.) Ropar.
List of the Enclosures along with the Hard Copy of the Application:
Academic record- Copies of relevant certificates/mark sheets for the qualifying examination duly attested by Gazetted Officer
Course fee receipt, if any, duly paid during the academic session; and countersigned by authorised signatory of the institution.
In case of continuation of scholarship in a succeeding year, attach at least a copy of the mark sheet of the preceding year duly signed by an authorised signatory
Candidate selected for the scholarship award will also have to submit a copy of the pass book of savings bank account.
Amount of Scholarship:
Amount of scholarship will be approximately Rs.25000/- per month or above subject to the expenditure incurred by the student at the educational institute.
Selection Committee is fully empowered to select the student applicant and the decision of the committee will be final and it can not be challenged in any court of law.
Guarantee:
The candidate shall have to give two guarantees for his/her bonafide credentials and will alsostand as sureties for his/her financial liabilities in case he/she fails to continue his/her studies.
Note: L. R. Mundra Scholarship is, hereby, rechristened as ' Sh. L. R. Mundra Memorial Scholarship' after the demise of Sh. L. R. Mundra on 05-06-2017 and accordingly some more amendments are also inserted.
