SOURCE_URL: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-8kE1lLm8eSrQg3GEqnSnVqcVerkQb9H/view
TITLE: Allocation for Minor course for the B. Tech batch admitted in 2025
FETCHED: 2026-05-07
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/section/academics/notice/
---
Document: Allocation for Minor course for the B. Tech batch admitted in 2025 (dated 2026-05-07)
VISVESVARAYA NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLGY, NAGPUR
VNIT/Acd/Minor-2025Batch/2026-27
Notice:
Subject: Allocation for Minor course for the B.Tech. admitted in 2025
Applications are invited from students of B. Tech Batch-2025 admitted, who are interested for opting Minor course. Details of Minor Degree offered by various department are enclosed with this notice.
Please note applications are to be submitted viaGoogle form till15thMay, 2026
Eligibility:
(e A student is eligible to apply for opting Minor course at the end of First year only, provided he/she satisfies the followingcriterion:
(q
CGPA ≥ 8.0
ii)Candidate should have no active FF and / or W/ LL grade (either in W25 or in S26)
Offer for Minors will be permitted strictly in the order of merit as determined by their CGPA at the end of First year subject.
Important Instructions:
Registration for minors will be optional for all the eligible students.
Merit for Minor offered shall be as per CGPA of student after completion of First year (2™d Sem)and the options given by students.
Students from one branch could register at a single minor offered by any other department and NOT in the minor offered by their own or their parent department.
All India Rank in JEE (Main)2025 will be considered for tie-breaking while preparing the merit list.
Students from civil department are not allowed to opt for Structural Engineering & Disaster & Risk Reduction
Maximum number of students in a minor will be 30 and minimum will be 5. If the number of students interested in a minor course is less than 5, whether to run the minor course or not will be at the discretion of the Chairman BoS.Whenthe Chairman BoS cancels the minor due to less registration, re- allotment of minor will be done, based on the students' preference, among the remaining minors.
Minor, once registered, cannot be changed. Also, the student will have to complete the minor along with his/her degree. No separate or additional semesters/re-exam will be permitted to complete the minor.
If a student fails in a course in minor, even in their-exam, repeat registration for the course will not be allowed.
Preferences once given should not be repeated. Allocation will be conducted as per the merit list prepared for the purpose.
Students are requested to fill their details viz. ID, enrolment no, correctly. If found incorrect, their application is liable for rejection.
Students are instructed not to repeat the options. If found, their application is liable for rejection. https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1ShcdHYQsZdDDO-YoNxXcqT3Sc98DZVMmR9bzcx3ioiY/edit
Copy to: Institute Website: For information to all First Year (2025 B. Tech Admitted)Students
Date: May 07, 2026
Copy to: Institute Website: For information to all First Year (2025 B. Tech Admitted)Students | Important Instructions: Name of Dept.: EEE — Name of Minor Degree: Electric Vehicles
Copy to: Institute Website: For information to all First Year (2025 B. Tech Admitted)Students | Important Instructions: Name of Dept.: EEE — Name of Minor Degree: Smart Grid Technology
Copy to: Institute Website: For information to all First Year (2025 B. Tech Admitted)Students | Important Instructions: Name of Dept.: MME — Name of Minor Degree: Materials Engineering
Copy to: Institute Website: For information to all First Year (2025 B. Tech Admitted)Students | Important Instructions: Name of Dept.: ECE — Name of Minor Degree: Minor in lnternet of Things (loT)
Copy to: Institute Website: For information to all First Year (2025 B. Tech Admitted)Students | Important Instructions: Name of Dept.: ctv — Name of Minor Degree: lnfrastructure Engineering and Management
Copy to: Institute Website: For information to all First Year (2025 B. Tech Admitted)Students | Important Instructions: Name of Dept.: MEC — Name of Minor Degree: Minor in Robotic Engineering
Copy to: Institute Website: For information to all First Year (2025 B. Tech Admitted)Students | Important Instructions: Name of Dept.: MEC — Name of Minor Degree: Aerospace Engineering
Copy to: Institute Website: For information to all First Year (2025 B. Tech Admitted)Students | Important Instructions: Name of Dept.: MIN — Name of Minor Degree: Safety Engineering
Copy to: Institute Website: For information to all First Year (2025 B. Tech Admitted)Students | Important Instructions: Name of Dept.: APM — Name of Minor Degree: Disaster & Risk Reduction
Copy to: Institute Website: For information to all First Year (2025 B. Tech Admitted)Students | Important Instructions: Name of Dept.: APM — Name of Minor Degree: Structural Engineering
Copy to: Institute Website: For information to all First Year (2025 B. Tech Admitted)Students | Important Instructions: Name of Dept.: CME — Name of Minor Degree: Minor in Chemical Engineering
Copy to: Institute Website: For information to all First Year (2025 B. Tech Admitted)Students | Important Instructions: Name of Dept.: CSE — Name of Minor Degree: Minor in Computer Science Engineering
Copy to: Institute Website: For information to all First Year (2025 B. Tech Admitted)Students | Important Instructions: Name of Dept.: CSE — Name of Minor Degree: Minor in Machine Learning
Copy to: Institute Website: For information to all First Year (2025 B. Tech Admitted)Students | Important Instructions: Name of Dept.: MTH — Name of Minor Degree: Minor in Mathematics
Copy to: Institute Website: For information to all First Year (2025 B. Tech Admitted)Students | Important Instructions: Name of Dept.: PHY/ rDB — Name of Minor Degree: Minor in Quantum Technology
Dean (Academic)
