SOURCE_URL: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1MNd8CGaxoNMDroSzHYF2xkm99S9jDvAA/view
TITLE: Guidelines and Rules Student Council Election (2025-26)
FETCHED: 2025-07-02
FOUND_ON: https://vnit.ac.in/section/academics/notice/
---
Document: Guidelines and Rules Student Council Election (2025-26) (dated 2025-07-02)
Guidelines and Rules
Student Council Election (2025-26)
Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology, Nagpur
Election Committee
Election Committee: Dr. Ratnesh Kumar, Dean (Students Welfare) | Chairperson
Election Committee: Dr. G. Hema Chandra, Asso. Dean (Students Activity & Sports) | Co-chairperson
Election Committee: Dr. Ravindra Keskar, Asso. Professor, CSE | Chief Election Officer
Election Committee: Dr. Vijayakumar R. P., Asso. Dean (Hostel Affairs) | Discipline Coordinator
Election Committee: Dr. Poonam Sharma, Asso. Dean (IT) | Technical Coordinator
Election Committee: Dr. Nikhil Deep Gupta, Astt. Professor, VLSI | Election Officer
Election Committee: Mrs. Deepali Deshpande, I/C Astt. Registrar (Hostel Section) | Member
Election Committee: Mr. Nikhil V. Naukarkar, Technical Officer, Computer Center | Member
VNIT Students' Council Elections 2025 -26 Schedule
VNIT Council Elections 2025 -26 Schedule: Activity: Election notification — Date: June 30, 2025, 9:00 PM; Mode: Through following portal https://vnitaims.vnit.ac.in
VNIT Council Elections 2025 -26 Schedule: Activity: Commencement of filing the nomination — Date: June 30, 2025, 9:00 PM; Mode: Online through https://vnitaims.vnit.ac.in (Select: Academic Year 2024-25; Session S25)
VNIT Council Elections 2025 -26 Schedule: Activity: Last date for filing nomination — Date: July 04, 2025 till 5:00 PM; Mode: Online through https://vnitaims.vnit.ac.in
VNIT Council Elections 2025 -26 Schedule: Activity: Grievance redressal regarding filing of nominations — Date: July 04, 2025 till 6:00 PM*; Mode: Through email on stuelection@vnit.ac.in
VNIT Council Elections 2025 -26 Schedule: Activity: Last date for withdrawal of nomination — Date: July 05, 2025, till 5:00 PM; Mode: Through email # to stuelection@vnit.ac.in
VNIT Council Elections 2025 -26 Schedule: Activity: Announcement of Nominations — Date: July 07, 2025, till 5:00 PM; Mode: Online through following portal https://vnitaims.vnit.ac.in
VNIT Council Elections 2025 -26 Schedule: Activity: Complaints regarding nomination — Date: July 08, 2025, till 5:00 PM; Mode: Through email on stuelection@vnit.ac.in
VNIT Council Elections 2025 -26 Schedule: Activity: Final nomination list — Date: July 10, 2025, till 5:00 PM; Mode: Online through following portal https://vnitaims.vnit.ac.in
VNIT Council Elections 2025 -26 Schedule: Activity: Voting — Date: July 13, 2025 9:00 AM till 5:00 PM; Mode: Online through https://vnitaims.vnit.ac.in (Select: Academic Year 2024-25; Session S25)
VNIT Council Elections 2025 -26 Schedule: Activity: Declaration of result — Date: July 13, 2025 6:00 PM onwards; Mode: On students notice board of Institute website
Although the elections are for Academic Year 2025-26, in the election portal https://vnitaims.vnit.ac.in during login the concluded academic year 2024-25 and session S25 is to be chosen.
Use AIMS login id/password as on /before 20/6/2025.
Students are advised to file the nominations well in advance before the deadline. Also go through Section iii: Election Guidelines (Nomination Process) in page-5.
# For withdrawal, email shall be sent either through institute email id or email id registered in the AIMS portal. Mandatory to attach pdf copy of Institute ID card.
Note: Google chrome is the compatible browser for the student council election module. Students are advised to use the same Browser for the election process (For filing nomination and Voting)
If dark mode is enabled, change it to the Light mode in the setting. The setting can be found in the right top corner. Click on the photo icon in the right top corner and choose setting from the drop down.
Submission of the Nomination:
A contesting candidate must submit the nomination through the Institute 's Election Committee portal within the stipulated time.
i. Post code, name of the Post and corresponding eligibility for filing nomination is shown in the table below:
A contesting candidate must submit the nomination through the Institute Election Committee portal within the stipulated time. | i. Post code, name of the Post and corresponding eligibility for filing nominati: Name of the post: General Secretary — Basic Eligibility for nomination: All 4 th year UG students of B.Tech. / B.Arch. (i.e. Enrollment No. BT22 / BA22)
A contesting candidate must submit the nomination through the Institute Election Committee portal within the stipulated time. | i. Post code, name of the Post and corresponding eligibility for filing nominati: Name of the post: Ladies Representative — Basic Eligibility for nomination: All 4 th year UG Girl students of B.Tech. / B.Arch. (i.e. Enrollment No. BT22 / BA22)
A contesting candidate must submit the nomination through the Institute Election Committee portal within the stipulated time. | i. Post code, name of the Post and corresponding eligibility for filing nominati: Name of the post: UG Academic Affairs Secretary — Basic Eligibility for nomination: All 4 th year UG students of B.Tech. / B.Arch. (i.e. Enrollment No. BT22 / BA22)
A contesting candidate must submit the nomination through the Institute Election Committee portal within the stipulated time. | i. Post code, name of the Post and corresponding eligibility for filing nominati: Name of the post: P. G. Academic Affairs Secretary — Basic Eligibility for nomination: All 2 nd year PG students of M.Tech. / M.Sc. (i.e. Enrollment No. MT24 / MS24)
A contesting candidate must submit the nomination through the Institute Election Committee portal within the stipulated time. | i. Post code, name of the Post and corresponding eligibility for filing nominati: Name of the post: Academic Affairs Secretary - Ph.D. — Basic Eligibility for nomination: All students of VNIT with Enrolment No. DT23, DT22 or before (The candidate must spend one year if elected for the post)
A contesting candidate must submit the nomination through the Institute Election Committee portal within the stipulated time. | i. Post code, name of the Post and corresponding eligibility for filing nominati: Name of the post: Magazine and Literary Affairs Secretary — Basic Eligibility for nomination: All 4 th year UG students of B.Tech. / B.Arch. (i.e. Enrollment No. BT22 / BA22)
A contesting candidate must submit the nomination through the Institute Election Committee portal within the stipulated time. | i. Post code, name of the Post and corresponding eligibility for filing nominati: Name of the post: Training and Placement Secretary — Basic Eligibility for nomination: All 4 th year UG students of B.Tech. / B.Arch. (i.e. Enrollment No. BT22 / BA22)
A contesting candidate must submit the nomination through the Institute Election Committee portal within the stipulated time. | i. Post code, name of the Post and corresponding eligibility for filing nominati: Name of the post: Technical Affaires Secretary — Basic Eligibility for nomination: All 4 th year UG students of B.Tech. / B.Arch. (i.e. Enrollment No. BT22 / BA22)
A contesting candidate must submit the nomination through the Institute Election Committee portal within the stipulated time. | i. Post code, name of the Post and corresponding eligibility for filing nominati: Name of the post: Sports Secretary — Basic Eligibility for nomination: All 4 th year UG students of B.Tech. / B.Arch. (i.e. Enrollment No. BT22 / BA22)
A contesting candidate must submit the nomination through the Institute Election Committee portal within the stipulated time. | i. Post code, name of the Post and corresponding eligibility for filing nominati: Name of the post: Cultural Secretary — Basic Eligibility for nomination: All 4 th year UG students of B.Tech. / B.Arch. (i.e. Enrollment No. BT22 / BA22)
A contesting candidate must submit the nomination through the Institute Election Committee portal within the stipulated time. | i. Post code, name of the Post and corresponding eligibility for filing nominati: Name of the post: PG Sports Secretary and Cultural Affairs — Basic Eligibility for nomination: All 2 nd year PG students of M.Tech. / M.Sc. (i.e. Enrollment No. MT24 / MS24)
A contesting candidate must submit the nomination through the Institute Election Committee portal within the stipulated time. | i. Post code, name of the Post and corresponding eligibility for filing nominati: Name of the post: Hostel Affairs Secretary (Boys) — Basic Eligibility for nomination: All 4 th year UG Boy students of B.Tech. / B.Arch. (i.e. Enrollment No. BT22 / BA22) residing at hostel
A contesting candidate must submit the nomination through the Institute Election Committee portal within the stipulated time. | i. Post code, name of the Post and corresponding eligibility for filing nominati: Name of the post: Hostel Affairs Secretary (Girls) — Basic Eligibility for nomination: All 4 th year UG Girl students of B.Tech. / B.Arch. (i.e. Enrollment No. BT22 / BA22) residing at hostel
A contesting candidate must submit the nomination through the Institute Election Committee portal within the stipulated time. | i. Post code, name of the Post and corresponding eligibility for filing nominati: Name of the post: Social Affairs Secretary — Basic Eligibility for nomination: All 4 th year UG students of B.Tech. / B.Arch. (i.e. Enrollment No. BT22 / BA22)
A contesting candidate must submit the nomination through the Institute Election Committee portal within the stipulated time. | i. Post code, name of the Post and corresponding eligibility for filing nominati: Name of the post: Alumni Affairs Secretary — Basic Eligibility for nomination: All 4 th year UG students of B.Tech. / B.Arch. (i.e. Enrollment No. BT22 / BA22)
ii. Essential criteria:
A student is permitted to contest for only one post of the council.
The candidate must have a minimum CGPA of 7.00
The candidate must not have any active backlogs.
During complete academic duration the candidate must not have any disciplinary action of category-I as per the Disciplinary Action Committee guidelines.
The candidate must not have any academic disciplinary action
Candidate must submit the manifesto in the prescribed format (Annexure - 1)
iii. Election Guidelines (Nomination Process)
Once you have successfully submitted your nomination through the election portal, a confirmation email will be sent to your email address registered in the AIMS portal. (Ensure that sufficient mail storage space is available before filing the nomination to receive the confirmation mail after nomination. Also, check your Spam folder in-case email is not received in inbox.)
After receiving the confirmation email, you are required to forward it to stuelection@vnit.ac.in within 30 minutes of its receipt.
If you do not receive the confirmation email within 30 minutes, you must immediately inform the Election Committee by sending an email to stuelection@vnit.ac.in
Please note that if the above procedure is not followed, any issues related to the nomination raised later will not be considered.
iv Rules and Regulations :
Any candidate who is planning to undergo semester long internship is not expected to contest the Student Council Election, also for the Ph.D. Academic Affairs Secretary post, the candidates who are planning to submit the thesis in next one year is not expected to contest the election.
The number of votes in favour of the winning candidate should be greater than the number of votes for NOTA. If votes for NOTA is more than sum of all votes polled for other candidates, no candidate is considered to be elected. Nominations will be called for the respective post(s) for selection through interview.
In the event of any post remaining uncontested or falls vacant for any reason, nominations will be called for the post for selection through interview.
In case of a tie, the winner will be decided based on the higher CGPA between the two. In case, both candidates have the same CGPA, then the CGPA obtained by the candidates in the immediate past semester will be considered for deciding the winner, and so on. Same CGPA criteria, based on course work, is also applicable for the post of Academic Affairs Secretary - Ph.D.
The Chief Election Officer may declare provisional results immediately after the counting of the votes and shall submit the results of the elections to the Dean (Students Welfare) for ratification. The Election Committee will decide on all matters related to election. The decision of the Chief Election Officer shall be final and binding. However, under exceptional circumstances, an appeal may be made to the Dean (SW).
It is the responsibility of the applicant to assess his/her own eligibility to the post for which he/she is applying in accordance with the Essential Criteria and also the Desirable attributes and Credentials. If it is found at any stage, that during the process of election or even after election, the applicant was not eligible as per the prescribed criteria (which could not be detected at the time of election process for whatever reason); his/her candidature/selection shall be cancelled/terminated immediately.
In case of any inadvertent mistake in the process of election, which may be detected at any stage even after the selection, the Election committee reserves the right to withdraw/cancel any/all steps or part of election process.
v. Desirable Attributes and credentials:
Desirable attributes and credentials to consider by the voters when voting for a Student Council Candidate.
Desirable attributes and credentials to consider by the voters when voting for a Student Council Candidate. | v. Desirable Attributes and credentials: Name of the post: General Secretary — Desirable Attributes/credentials: Previously served as Department / Hostel Council member / Student Mentor / Core committee member of Club / Core committee member of Institute fest (AXIS, Consortium) / Junior Prefect (JP)
Desirable attributes and credentials to consider by the voters when voting for a Student Council Candidate. | v. Desirable Attributes and credentials: Name of the post: Ladies Representative (LR) — Desirable Attributes/credentials: Girl student having previous experience as Department / Hostel Council member / Student Mentor / Core committee member of Club / Institute fest (AXIS, Consortium) / Junior Prefect (JP)
Desirable attributes and credentials to consider by the voters when voting for a Student Council Candidate. | v. Desirable Attributes and credentials: Name of the post: UG Academic Affairs Secretary — Desirable Attributes/credentials: Previously served as Department / Hostel Council member / Student Mentor / Core committee Member of Technical clubs/fests
Desirable attributes and credentials to consider by the voters when voting for a Student Council Candidate. | v. Desirable Attributes and credentials: Name of the post: P. G. Academic Affairs Secretary — Desirable Attributes/credentials: Previously served as CR/LR of department / Core committee Member of Vihang or Hostel Council
Desirable attributes and credentials to consider by the voters when voting for a Student Council Candidate. | v. Desirable Attributes and credentials: Name of the post: Academic Affairs Secretary - Ph.D. — Desirable Attributes/credentials: Previously served as Core committee Member of Vihang or Hostel Council / Previous leadership position held.
Desirable attributes and credentials to consider by the voters when voting for a Student Council Candidate. | v. Desirable Attributes and credentials: Magazine and Literary Affairs Secretary | Core committee member of Magazine and Literary activities at Institute / Department / Hostel level.
Desirable attributes and credentials to consider by the voters when voting for a Student Council Candidate. | v. Desirable Attributes and credentials: Training and Placement Secretary | Previously served as Department T & P Secretary / DR / ADR / LR.
Desirable attributes and credentials to consider by the voters when voting for a Student Council Candidate. | v. Desirable Attributes and credentials: Technical Affairs Secretary | Core Committee Member of Department / Hostel council / Technical club / fest.
Desirable attributes and credentials to consider by the voters when voting for a Student Council Candidate. | v. Desirable Attributes and credentials: Sports Secretary | Inter NIT representation / Core committee member of any institute's Sports activities / Sports Secretary of Department / Hostel Council.
Desirable attributes and credentials to consider by the voters when voting for a Student Council Candidate. | v. Desirable Attributes and credentials: Cultural Secretary | Core committee member of any of the VNIT cultural club / fests, Cultural Secretary of Department / Hostel Council.
Desirable attributes and credentials to consider by the voters when voting for a Student Council Candidate. | v. Desirable Attributes and credentials: PG Sports Secretary and Cultural Affairs | Inter NIT representation / Previously served as CR / LR of department / Core committee Members of Vihang / Hostel Council
Desirable attributes and credentials to consider by the voters when voting for a Student Council Candidate. | v. Desirable Attributes and credentials: Hostel Affairs Secretary (Boys) | Previously served as JP / member of Hostel council.
Desirable attributes and credentials to consider by the voters when voting for a Student Council Candidate. | v. Desirable Attributes and credentials: Hostel Affairs Secretary (Girls) | Girl student Previously served as JP / member of Hostel council.
Desirable attributes and credentials to consider by the voters when voting for a Student Council Candidate. | v. Desirable Attributes and credentials: Social Affairs Secretary | Core committee member of any of the VNIT social club / fest / Health / Social Secretary of Department / Hostel Council.
Desirable attributes and credentials to consider by the voters when voting for a Student Council Candidate. | v. Desirable Attributes and credentials: Alumni Affairs Secretary | Department Alumni Affairs Secretary DR / ADR / LR.
Scrutiny of the Nomination:
The scrutiny of the nomination shall be done by the institute's election committee and the final list of contesting candidates shall be viewed through https://vnitaims.vnit.ac.in as per the schedule.
Rejection of Nomination:
Nomination shall be rejected on the following grounds:
The nominee does not meet the basic eligibility criteria like year, academic performance, years left for graduation, etc.
The nominee fails to submit manifesto in the prescribed format required as part of the nomination process.
The nominee does not agree to abide by the rules and code of conduct of elections and fails to make the undertaking.
Making a false declaration in the nomination shall lead to the rejection of the nomination
& lead to Disciplinary action.
The nominee has record of indiscipline and has faced punishment in the past.
Withdrawal of Nomination :
The candidate can withdraw the nomination by sending an email to stuelection@vnit.ac.in from his / her institute email id by attaching with the institute id card.
Manifesto Approval:
Candidates need to submit their manifestos in the prescribed format while filing nomination.
The manifestos would be checked for compliance with established guidelines.
Candidates will be informed for any required modifications or clarifications.
For all the eligible candidates, the biodata and manifestos in the prescribed format along with the other submitted information will be published through https://vnitaims.vnit.ac.in
Students are expected to vote after reading the manifesto and credentials of candidates.
Candidates should desist from making any promise beyond whatever mentioned in his / her manifesto submitted to Election Committee. Any violation will lead to cancellation of the candidature.
This is to ensure that manifestos have administrative oversight and meet ethical campaigning standards. This systematic approach is to guarantee a thorough examination, adherence to guidelines, and transparency in the approval of candidates' manifestos.
vi. Post and corresponding eligibility for voting is shown table below:
This is to ensure that manifestos have administrative oversight and meet ethical campaigning standards. | vi. Post and corresponding eligibility for voting is shown table below: Name of the post: General Secretary — Eligibility for voting: All registered students (UG, PG and Ph.D.)
This is to ensure that manifestos have administrative oversight and meet ethical campaigning standards. | vi. Post and corresponding eligibility for voting is shown table below: Name of the post: Ladies Representative — Eligibility for voting: All registered Girl students (UG, PG and Ph.D.)
This is to ensure that manifestos have administrative oversight and meet ethical campaigning standards. | vi. Post and corresponding eligibility for voting is shown table below: Name of the post: UG Academic Affairs Secretary — Eligibility for voting: All registered UG students
This is to ensure that manifestos have administrative oversight and meet ethical campaigning standards. | vi. Post and corresponding eligibility for voting is shown table below: Name of the post: P. G. Academic Affairs Secretary — Eligibility for voting: All registered PG students
This is to ensure that manifestos have administrative oversight and meet ethical campaigning standards. | vi. Post and corresponding eligibility for voting is shown table below: Name of the post: Academic Affairs Secretary - Ph.D. — Eligibility for voting: All registered Ph.D. students (including part time)
This is to ensure that manifestos have administrative oversight and meet ethical campaigning standards. | vi. Post and corresponding eligibility for voting is shown table below: Name of the post: Magazine and Literary Affairs Secretary — Eligibility for voting: All registered students (UG, PG and Ph.D.)
This is to ensure that manifestos have administrative oversight and meet ethical campaigning standards. | vi. Post and corresponding eligibility for voting is shown table below: Name of the post: Training and Placement Secretary — Eligibility for voting: All registered students (UG, PG and Ph.D.)
This is to ensure that manifestos have administrative oversight and meet ethical campaigning standards. | vi. Post and corresponding eligibility for voting is shown table below: Technical Affaires Secretary | All registered students (UG, PG and Ph.D.)
This is to ensure that manifestos have administrative oversight and meet ethical campaigning standards. | vi. Post and corresponding eligibility for voting is shown table below: Sports Secretary (UG) | All registered UG students
This is to ensure that manifestos have administrative oversight and meet ethical campaigning standards. | vi. Post and corresponding eligibility for voting is shown table below: Cultural Secretary (UG) | All registered UG students
This is to ensure that manifestos have administrative oversight and meet ethical campaigning standards. | vi. Post and corresponding eligibility for voting is shown table below: PG Sports Secretary and Cultural Affairs | All registered PG and Ph.D. students
This is to ensure that manifestos have administrative oversight and meet ethical campaigning standards. | vi. Post and corresponding eligibility for voting is shown table below: Hostel Affairs Secretary (Boys) | All registered Boy students residing in the hostel
This is to ensure that manifestos have administrative oversight and meet ethical campaigning standards. | vi. Post and corresponding eligibility for voting is shown table below: Hostel Affairs Secretary (Girls) | All registered Girl students residing in the hostel
This is to ensure that manifestos have administrative oversight and meet ethical campaigning standards. | vi. Post and corresponding eligibility for voting is shown table below: Social Affairs Secretary | All registered students (UG, PG and Ph.D.)
This is to ensure that manifestos have administrative oversight and meet ethical campaigning standards. | vi. Post and corresponding eligibility for voting is shown table below: Alumni Affairs Secretary | All registered students (UG, PG and Ph.D.)
Note: Students registered for offline programs of VNIT are allowed to participate in the election process (Both as a contestant and voter)
Code of conduct:
No candidate shall indulge in, nor shall abet, any activity, which may create difference/hatred or cause tension between different castes and communities, religion, racism, regional, linguistic, or genders, or between any group(s) of students. There shall be no appeal to regional, caste or communal feelings for securing votes.
Criticism of other candidates, if made, shall be confined to their manifestos and past works related to student activities. Criticism based on unverified allegations or distortion shall be avoided.
All candidates shall be prohibited from indulging in or abetting, any activity which are considered to be 'corrupt practices' and offenses, such as bribing voters, intimidating voters or impersonation of voters.
Institute and departmental official platforms shall not be used for campaigning by the candidates.
In case any abusive or defamatory post that harms the image of the Institute and its stakeholders is reported, disciplinary actions against the perpetrator will be taken by the Election Committee as per Institute rules. Campaign must have a serious and professional tone.
Guidelines for Bio-data, Manifestos and Supporting documents preparation:
Introduction and Competence Demonstration: It can encompass a brief introduction about the candidate, candidate's credentials and supporting documents for the post, motivations in contesting for the position, their passion, vision, and aspirations for the institute, and the experience of the candidate working with or under the effect of the executive council position. The candidates could also mention any other skills, achievements or experiences that they think would make them competent for the applied post.
6.2. Manifesto: A pitch comprising details about their Manifesto should ensure feasibility and can also include the previous themes to demonstrate their all-around qualifications for the position.
Making of panels is not allowed. Each candidate shall contest independently. If found, the candidature of complete panel will be cancelled.
If it is found that any candidate is taking help of external agency/organization/influencer for campaigning, then his/her candidature will be immediately cancelled and strict disciplinary action will be taken.
Voters shall secure their password of AIMS Login to avoid impersonation.
The election Committee will also act as the grievance cell for the election period.
The decision of Election Committee will be final in all respects.
NOTE:
Any act of violation of the code of conduct during entire election process by the candidate will lead to the cancellation of the student's candidature. Also, suppression or misrepresentation of any fact regarding the eligibility criteria in the nomination form will lead to the cancellation of the candidature. At any time, even after the election of the candidate, if it is found that the student had suppressed facts/provided false information during his/her nomination for the election, it will lead to disciplinary action and immediate removal from the elected post.
1. General Secretary
Acts as the chief coordinator of the Student Council. Responsible for ensuring smooth council operations, organizing meetings, and submitting meeting minutes within 7 days. Serves as the main student representative to the Dean (Students' Welfare), upholdin g the interests and welfare of the entire student body.
2. P.G. Academic Affairs Secretary
Represents postgraduate students on academic matters such as curriculum development, academic policy, and administration. Works closely with the academic office and library. Encourages research culture, internship opportunities, and academic excellence among PG students through awareness and active engagement.
3. U.G. Academic Affairs Secretary
Serves as the academic voice of undergraduate students. Engages with academic departments on curriculum, examination systems, and related policies. Addresses academic grievances, promotes technical and research involvement, and raises awareness of academic opportunities and challenges within the UG community.
4. Magazine and Literary Affairs Secretary
Leads and manages all institute literary activities, including debates, creative writing, and editorial events. Oversees the planning, editing, and publication of the official VNIT magazine. Encourages literary participation among students and maintains the quality and timeliness of publications.
5. Training & Placement Secretary
Acts as a bridge between students and the Training & Placement (T&P) Cell. Facilitates student placement preparation, maintains awareness of company requirements, and helps
Roles and responsibilities
promote VNIT students to recruiters. Offers guidance on internships and training, ensuring better student preparedness.
6. Technical Affairs Secretary
Responsible for planning, coordinating, and executing all technical events and fests, both within the institute and at inter-hostel levels. Maintains and updates the Council's website and tech portals. Works to promote a strong technical culture and hands-on learning environment in the institute.
7. Sports Secretary
Leads all sportsrelated initiatives and represents the institute's sports teams. Coordinates inter-departmental and inter-collegiate events, ensures training schedules, and works with the Sports Teacher to enhance participation and performance in various sports activities.
8. Cultural Secretary
Manages cultural events and activities across the institute and hostels. Leads the cultural team, ensuring representation in competitions and festivals. Coordinates with stakeholders to organize events in music, dance, drama, and other art forms, promoting cultural vibrancy on campus.
9. PG Sports & Cultural Affairs Secretary
Represents postgraduate students in sports and cultural matters. Organizes exclusive PG events, encourages participation, and addresses specific needs of PG students in these domains. Bridges the gap between PG community and institute-level event planning.
10. Ladies Representative
Serves as the voice of the female student community. Organizes sports and welfare activities for girls and addresses gender-specific concerns. Acts as a liaison between female students and administration, initiating steps for improved safety, wellness, and representation of Girl students at VNIT.
11. Hostel Affairs Secretary (Boys)
Oversees boys' hostel operations including general discipline, maintenance, and mess management. Coordinates with hostel general secretaries and relevant committees to address issues. Represents hostel-related student concerns to the institute administration.
12. Hostel Affairs Secretary (Girls)
Coordinates all girls' hostel-related matters such as accommodation, mess, and upkeep. Works with hostel committees to ensure smooth functioning and addresses the concerns of girl residents in coordination with administration.
13. Social Affairs Secretary
Promotes a socially aware, inclusive, and participative student environment. Organizes community service, awareness drives, and student engagement programs. Works towards equality and fraternity across campus, enhancing the overall student life experience.
14. Alumni Affairs Secretary
Supports and coordinates alumni engagement, including annual and reunion meets. Assists Institute administration and Alumni Association in building stronger alumni-student relations and preserving the institute's legacy through meaningful interactions.
15. Academic Affairs Secretary - Ph.D.
Represents the Ph.D. research community in academic matters. Advocates for better research infrastructure, funding, and scholar welfare. Collaborates with administration to resolve issues faced by Ph.D. students and encourages a thriving academic and research environment.
* * * * * *
