SOURCE_URL: https://vnit.ac.in/engineering/ece/
TITLE: VNIT Nagpur Electronics and Communication Engineering Department
FETCHED: 2026-09-21
---
Specialization
Communication System Engineering
PO's / PSO's
PEO's
PO's
Placements & internships
M.Tech.
Student Chapter
Student's Achievements
Faculty profile
ALUMNI SPOTLIGHT
Previous image
Next image
About Department
The Department of Electronics and Computer Science was created in 1994 from the Department of Electrical Engineering. Later, the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering has been created in May 2014. It offers under-graduate program (B.Tech. ) in Electronics and Communication Engineering and post-graduate program (M.Tech.)  in Communication Systems Engineering. The department has well qualified and well motivated faculty members and support staff. There are more than 30 full time PhD students enrolled in the department in the areas of Communication Engineering, Image Processing, Embedded System Design, RF and Antenna Design. The laboratories are adequately equipped with state-of-the-art facilities. The department is undergoing vigorous growth in emerging areas of Embedded Systems, RF Testing and Communications. Currently, the department has been awarded Center of Excellence in Combedded Systems by MHRD (NPIU). The department is actively involved in R & D as well as consultancy projects and has collaborations with several industries, academic institutes, and R&D organizations in the country.
The B.Tech. (ECE) program offered by the Department is accredited by National Board of Accreditation (NBA) for five years w.e.f. July 1, 2015. The M.Tech. (CMN) program is accredited by NBA up to
30 June 2028.
Vision & Mission
Vision
The Department endeavors to facilitate state of the art technical education in the field of Electronics and Communication Engineering by infusing scientific temper in the students leading towards research and to grow as centre of excellence in the field. The vision of the department is to provide education to students that is directly applicable to problems and situations encountered in real life and thus foster a successful career. The department aims to provide the best platform to students and staff for their growth.
Mission
The Mission of the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering is:
To be the epitome of academic rigour, flexible to accommodate every student and faculty for basic, current and future technologies in Electronics and Communication Engineering.
Strengthening and providing support in sustaining a healthy society by improving the quality of life through the application of technology.
Department Stats
0
PG Specialisations
0
Faculty
0
Students
0
Publications (This Year)
0
Patents (This Year)
News & Events
Ph.D. Admission Full / Part Time (GATE / Non-GATE) (July 2026)
Area of Research for Ph. D. @ ECE
Guest lecture
PCEMS 2026
