SOURCE_URL: https://vnit.ac.in/engineering/mining
TITLE: VNIT Nagpur Mining Engineering Department
FETCHED: 2026-09-21
---
Specialization
M. Tech in Excavation and Tunnel Engineering
PO's / PEO's
PEO's
PO's
Departmental Newsletter
Student Chapter
Previous slide
Next slide
About Department
Department of Mining Engineering
The Department of Mining Engineering was established in the year
1982-83
. It offers a Bachelor of Technology in Mining Engineering and an M Tech in Excavation and Tunnel Engineering course. The B Tech course has been accredited by the National Board of Accreditation earlier in 1996, 2001, 2008 and 2016 and was granted Grade “A” for five years all the time. Recently, the B. Tech course has been accredited in the year 2022 for 3 years and currently, the process of reaccreditation is initiated.
In its 43 years of existence, 38 batches of students have passed out. The performance of present and past students is comparable to that of any established institute. The department alumni are very well placed in the Industry (Mining as well as across spectrum of different domains), Research and Development, Government sector, Academics and many of them are successful entrepreneurs.
The
B. Tech in Mining Engineering
is a 4-year course run on a semester pattern. A weightage of 40% of contact time is given for practical and 60% for theory. Assessment is based on sessional examinations, practical tests, final written examination, internal viva-voce examination, quality of field work, field reports, seminars and project work.  The course is regularly upgraded, and now relative grading is in operation. Female candidates have been permitted to take up admission B.Tech (Mining) Course.
The
M.Tech. Excavation and Tunnel Engineering program
is a 2-year PG program offered by the Mining Engineering Department with a sanctioned intake of 18. This postgraduate program is available to Civil, Construction and Mining Engineering graduates through GATE and through the Institute admission process for Non-GATE Candidates.
The department initially offered the PG course of
M.Tech. (Excavation Engineering)
from the year 2012-13  with a sanctioned intake of 25, and now it is renamed as
M.Tech. Excavation and Tunnel Engineering.
A total of 13 batches have passed out.
The department also offers PhD. level and M. Tech (By Research) opportunities. 13 Phd’s have been awarded to date, and 48 PhD scholars are currently registered for the program
. A total of 8 scholars have completed and been awarded M.Tech (by research) from the department.
The department is housed in an independent building that includes classrooms, laboratories, workshops, seminar halls, audio-visual rooms, an office, stores, and other facilities, covering about 1450 sq. meters. The department has spacious, well-equipped laboratories and faculty cabins located in this building as well as in the new academic block. The department has implemented several growth programs funded by various agencies with a total funding of about 150 lakhs and has acquired good laboratory and computational facilities. A central library caters to the needs of the department.
The core faculty comprises 1 Professor, 2 Associate Professors and 5 Assistant Professors
. The core faculty is supported by 6 faculty members from other departments and adjunct faculties. The faculty is supported by 6 non-teaching staff.
The department enjoys an excellent rapport with the industry and offers a variety of services and accrues about Rupees 1-1.5 Cr per year as revenue.
The faculty is actively involved in student activities, curriculum development, departmental and institutional planning, development and administrative activities, service to industry and society, implementation of growth programs research and development and in creating an enriching work culture.
The department aspires to create an internationally competitive teaching and research environment through faculty development, creation of advanced research facilities, starting regular PG programs, acquiring collaborative projects and attracting scholars, increasing liaison with industry and maintaining a creative work culture.
Vision
To maintain  the standard of mining education and commitment for  basic research and applied research in the diverse fields of mining, excavation engineering and other interdisciplinary areas and continuously striving  to be recognized internationally for education, research and service to the mining and allied industry.
Mission
To create an environment conducive for attaining professional competence in the field of Mining Engineering and to provide specialised training for developing need-based human resources, while fostering within students and staff committed to academic, social and professional development.
Department Stats
0
PG Specialisations
0
Faculty
0
Students
0
Publications (This Year)
0
Research Project Ongoing
News & Events
