SOURCE_URL: https://vnit.ac.in/engineering/apm
TITLE: VNIT Nagpur Applied Mechanics Department
FETCHED: 2026-09-21
---
Specialization(s)
Structural Engineering
Earthquake Structural Engineering
Forensic Structural Engineering
PO's / PEO's
PEO's
PO's
Departmental Newsletter
About Department
Previous slide
Next slide
Established in 1962, the Department of Applied Mechanics offers three post graduate programs i.e. M.Tech. in Structural Engineering, M.Tech. in Earthquake Structural Engineering and M.Tech. in Forensic Structural Engineering. The department offers structural engineering courses to B.Tech. (Civil) and B. Arch programs along with the course of Engineering Mechanics to the first year B. Tech. students.
Department is actively involved in various R & D projects from various Government, Public and Private Agencies. Department is pursuing earthquake, wind, concrete corrosion, advanced engineered materials, blast, impact and fire engineering related activities. Department team has visited earthquake affected areas after Bhuj earthquake (2001), Andaman earthquake (2004) and Nepal earthquake (2015).
Consultancy work of structural design and scrutiny of various structures like water tanks, bridges, buildings and other structures are being undertaken by the department. The department is also involved in third party audit and structural stability audit of various structures. Department has facilities for testing of materials, proof load testing, non-destructive testing, vibration testing of buildings and bridges.three
Vision & Mission
Vision
The Department is committed to provide post graduate academic and research programs to produce high quality human resource with ability to meet the global challenges associated with built environment and to emerge as centre for advanced studies in the field of structural engineering.
Mission
The mission of the department is to achieve excellence in structural and earthquake engineering education, research and professional service. It is endeavored to equip students to assume leadership positions in engineering practice, education, research and serve mankind with structures designed for safety, serviceability and economy.
Department Stats
0
PG Specialisations
0
Faculty
0
Students
0
Publications (This Year)
0
Ongoing R&D Projects (With Budget of 231.41 Lakhs)
0
Patents: (This Year) Published and Filed
News & Events
PhD Admission – Summer 2026
May 20, 2026
No Comments
Placement Details:
May 29, 2024
No Comments
