SOURCE_URL: https://vnit.ac.in/engineering/mech/
TITLE: VNIT Nagpur Mechanical Department
FETCHED: 2026-09-21
---
Specialization
CORE
INTERDISCIPLINARY
CORE
CAD/CAM
Heat Power Engineering
Thermal Engineering
Production and Industrial Engineering
INTERDISCIPLINARY
Bio-Medical Engineering
Computational Fluid and Thermal Sciences
Electric Vehicle Technology (Hybrid)
Quick Links
PEO's
PO's
Department Newsletter
Student Notice Board
Department Faculty
UG Course Book (2025 batch onwards)
The Mechanical Engineering Department conducted the industry conclave event "Yantriki Vistaar 2025" on Nov. 25th.
The Mechanical Engineering Department conducted the industry conclave event "Yantriki Vistaar 2025" on Nov. 25th.
The Mechanical Engineering Department conducted the industry conclave event "Yantriki Vistaar 2025" on Nov. 25th.
The Mechanical Engineering Department conducted the industry conclave event "Yantriki Vistaar 2025" on Nov. 25th.
The Mechanical Engineering Department conducted the industry conclave event "Yantriki Vistaar 2025" on Nov. 25th.
Mechanical Department wins the Star Performer Award for Innovative Utilization of MATLAB
Mr. Abhinav Anand, Ms. Ishani Khaty, Mr. Sunil Watgule were part of the VNIT team at NIDAR 2026. VNIT won the "Ignite Prize" in Precision Agriculture Problem Statement and stood in Top 5 teams with over 100 teams participating nation wide. The team was mentored by Prof. S. S. Chiddarwar.
A significant milestone in automotive research and skill development with the dedicated Clutch Lab. sponsored by Setco Auto Systems. 

 Faculty coordinators from VNIT, Dr. A. A. Thakre and Dr. A. S. Dhoble played a pivotal role in coordinating with Setco Auto Systems to bring this project to fruition.
The International Conference on Advanced Materials & Manufacturing for Sustainability (ICAMMS-2026) was organized at Mechanical Engineering Department, VNIT Nagpur from 12-14 March 2026
The Machine Design Laboratory at The Mechanical Engineering Department, VNIT Nagpur is now a NABL Accredited Laboratory. It is the first Laboratory in VNIT Nagpur to receive a NABL accreditation.
Department Visit to the Air Force Museum, Vayusena Nagar, Nagpur (Aug. 29, 2026)
Department Visit to the Air Force Museum, Vayusena Nagar, Nagpur (Aug. 29, 2026)
Previous slide
Next slide
Latest in the Department
Mechanical Department wins the start performer award for innovative use of MATLAB
Prof. A. M. Kuthe is elected as a fellow of the Society for Biomaterials and Artificial Organs
Dr. D. A. Jolhe, Dr. M D. Goel, and Dr. V. M. Nistane
received approval for the project
"Ergonomic Improvement of the Seating Arrangements for Loader, Layer and Driver in Artillery gun: ATAGS"
from ARMREB (DRDO).
Dr. Anvesh Reddy and Dr. Rahul Tarodiya
received approval from IIT Guwahati Technology Innovation and Development Foundation for a project on -
"Investigations of Flow Induced Vibration in Deep sea Mining Pipes"
Dr. Ajinkya Baxy
secured a research project under the  Prime Minister Early Career Research Grant (
ANRF-ECRG
) scheme to
“Design, Development, and Optimization of Triply Periodic Minimal Surface-Based Customized Insoles for Diabetic Foot Care.”
Dr. Praveen D Sawarkar
and team secured first position in the
Idea4Life
competition under "Save Energy" category organized by the Ministry of Environment, Forest, and Climate Change on the occasion of World Environment Day 2025.
Dr. P. V. Kane
and Mr. Shubham Bundele received the Best Paper Award for "Design of an Improved Model for Gear Fault Diagnosis Using Acoustic Data and Efficient Net-Based Deep Learning Process" at the International Conference on Engineering and technology for Sustainable Future (ICETSF-2025).
Mr. Vinod Narayan Borikar, research scholar from the Mechanical Engineering Department has received the prestigious IndiaAI research fellowship under the IndiaAI Mission.
Previous
Next
About the Mechanical Engineering Department, VNIT Nagpur
Department of Mechanical Engineering is the oldest department started from the inception of the institute (1960). Over the last Six decades, we have grown our expertise and competence in the core Mechanical Engineering curriculum and research. The Department has one UG program (B. Tech in Mechanical Engineering), three PG programs (M. Tech in Industrial Engineering, CAD/CAM and Heat Power Engineering). The department also offers the PhD program. The department is devoted to quality teaching, outstanding research and development activities with its highly qualified 30 faculty members. Department has shown significant contribution in research in the domains like bio-medical engineering, CFD, robotics, solar energy and advanced machining. The department handles research projects funded by various agencies having total outlay of 10 Crores. Department has filed 31 patents and 4 are granted. Three technologies have been successfully transferred to industries. The department organizes training programs/workshops at regular intervals. In the recent past, department has hosted IPRoMM-2016, one of the reputed conferences in India. The vision of the department is to produce a quality human resource of a high stranded in mechanical engineering who can contribute favorably to the technological and socioeconomic development of the nation.
Vision:
To produce quality human resource of high standard in mechanical engineering who can contribute favorably to the technological and socio-economic development of the nation.
Mission:
To develop state of the art facilities related to mechanical engineering. To attract highly qualified faculty to the mechanical engineering department. To promote participation of industries in academic research and consultancy. To undertake research at regional and national level.
Department Stats
0
PG Specialisations
0
Faculty
0
Publications (2023-2024*)
0
Patents
News & Events
