SOURCE_URL: https://vnit.ac.in/section/rnc/forms-annexures
TITLE: Forms & Annexures – Research and Consultancy
FETCHED: 2026-09-21
---
Forms & Annexures
Forms and Document Related to (i) Sponsored Research Projects, (ii) Utilization of FPDF & DDF, and (iii) Conduct of Events (Conferences, Workshops, STTPs etc.)
The Dean (R&C) Office provides standard forms to facilitate the approval, execution, and management of Sponsored Research Projects (SRPs), utilization of FPDF and DDF, and conduct of events. These prescribed formats ensure uniform documentation, regulatory compliance, and efficient processing of related activities
S. No.
Form Category
Description of the Form
Download
1
Submission of Research Proposals
Approval for sponsored research projects (Govt. funding agencies/ Open call)
Note
: Attach the duly signed draft copy of the endorsement for verification. Upon Director’s approval, the final endorsement will be issued by the R&C Office. Soft copy of endorsement may be sent to rc_cell@vnit.ac.in (cc to deanr_c@vnit.ac.in)
SRP-01(A)
Approval for Industry-sponsored Research Projects (Industry-funded, closed calls on invitation etc.)
Note
: Separate policy document available on R&C website, refer the same for guidelines & format of the proposal.
SRP-01(B)
2
Intimation of Sanction & Ledger Creation for Research Projects
Intimation of Sanction of the Sponsored Research Projects by PI/Co-PI to R&C office
SRP-02(A)
Requisition form for Opening Ledger for Sponsored Research Projects under Schemes & Projects
SRP-02(B)
3
Recruitment of Sanctioned Research Positions (Manpower Recruitment)
Approval for Advertising the Recruitment of Sanctioned Research Positions
SRP-03(A)
Approval for the Formation of Selection Committee Panel
SRP-03(B)
Approval for Selected Candidates List as per the Recommendation of Selection Panel
SRP-03(C)
Approval for Adhoc-Appointment (not exceeding 3 months)
SRP-03(D)
4
Management of Research Manpower
Format for Joining Report of the Research Project Staff
SRP-03(E)
Extension of Tenure of the Research Project Staff
SRP-03(F)
Upgradation of Post of Research Project Staff
SRP-03(G)
Release of Monthly Fellowship of Research Project Staff
SRP-03(H)
Format for Leave or On-Duty for Research Project Staff
SRP-03(I)
Requisition Form for Overdraft Limit for Manpower Salary
SRP-03(J)
5
Overhead Distribution
Requisition Form for Overhead Distribution
Note
: Applicable only for the Sanctions after 11th June 2025
SRP-04(C)
6
Payment to Interns & Student Assistants
Format for Direct Payment to Interns & Student Assistants through Contingency Grant of Research Projects or FPDF
Note
: For student assistants, the start date of engagement shall be on or after the date of financial approval.
SRP-04(D)
7
UC, SE & Project Closure
Issuance of Utilization Certificate (UC) & Statement of Expenditure (SE)
SRP-05(A)
Approval for the Submission of Project Closure Report
SRP-05(B)
8
Utilization of FPDF & DDF
Format for the Utilization of Faculty Professional Development Fund (FPDF)
FPDF
Format for the Utilization of Department Development Fund
DDF
9
Conduction of Events – Conferences, Workshops etc
Approval for the Organization of Events – Conferences, Workshops, STTPs etc.
Events (A)
Note for Ledger Opening – Conferences, Workshops, STTPs
Events (B)
Format for Submitting Report on Completion of the Event
(within 2-weeks of completion of the event)
Events (D)
10
Financial Approval (FA)
Approval for the Procurement of Items under R&D Projects, Conferences/ Workshops/ Seminars etc. (1/2)
Annexure (2/2)
:
SRP-04(A) for Non-recurring (i.e. Equipment)
SRP-04(B) for Recurring (i.e. Consumables, Travel etc.)
Events (C) for Conference/Workshop etc.
Click Here
[E-Office Format]
11
Form for Payment to Students from Consultancy
Format for Direct Payment to Student Assistants/Ph.D. Research Scholar from Consultancy
Click Here
12
Paid Research Internships (RI)
Guidelines & Framework for Engagement of Interns under R&D Projects or FPDF, along with (i) Internship Approval Form (RI-01) and (ii) Internship Selection Form (RI-02)
Click Here
Certificate Format
Note
: Download the forms in Word format to laptop/desktop and then take a printout to ensure that the original formatting and prescribed page length are retained.
Forms & Documents – Consultancy Works/Projects
To ensure smooth execution and compliance of consultancy activities, the Dean (R&C) Office provides standard formats for approval, financial transactions, reporting, and statutory requirements. Faculty are required to use these forms for initiating, managing, and completing consultancy projects.
Available Forms:
VNIT Test Report Format
Consultancy Approval Form – More than ₹2.5 lakhs
Consultancy Approval Form – Up to ₹2.5 lakhs
Flow Chart for Consultancy Project Execution
Approval Format – Appointment in Consultancy Project
Consultancy Project Completion Report
Format for DRCC Minutes of Meeting (MoM)
Proforma Invoice for Consultancy
Proforma for Advance Tax Invoice (08.08.2025)
Exemption from Deduction of GST TDS
GST Applicability on Research & Development
